DECLASSIFIED

Authority:

NND 917033

Incident No, 27K

Yiere Sighted:  Aseension Parish, Township 10 South, Range 4 male fn AO
© wiles from Bew Orleans, Le - grounds .
Observer's Position: erount

4. €., ground, uir, contre} tower, etc.)

of Coserver: B, B, Williams, Pres, United Land Co.
2 219 Dryades St., Bew Orleans. RA 0515
r hotties! gomsiderable flying experience

u/s
1

st(s) ‘Approximately the length of a passenger aircraft
white-hot

4

ty? to be a white-hot cone. ‘The object dis-
of light?) played mo lights but scened enc sed in flame.
Did not 1 up the area.
1500 to 2000 ft
Approx 200 MPH

Sufficiemtly long to enable Williams to make a fairly
detailed edservation. Approximately 10 seconds.
Straight and level flight

tis): soundless
joet(e) Rast

f Sighting: Bo clouds with wind fairly calm

Peoulicritice Noted: eft ne trail of amy kind end 414 not
the area

Sumiary of Incident:

(See ettacucd pogo)

he «ighting od:

ridge facing south in the midst
wide. It was too dark for hunting in the wods bat was sufficiently
light for nim to see the tine by bis watch, At O50 hours #ii liams
wis looking to the «outh and sew on object which resembled an ice
Prone cone treveiing enst with tf larger ead in front. The ,
front ent anvenred wiite hot (like the mantels in 4 gasoline lantern)
Toward the reer it et gradually darker red, There was no vieible
metal or other m teriel ami no projections of any kind, only fire,
he object made absolutely no noice end left mo trail of eny kind.
t was treveling in a straight line from west to esst and ii
gin or lore altitute, There wae no visible means of propul sion,
it appeured to be about 3/4 miles oway and at an elevation of » wrox=
imately 2500 feet. xr Williams stated he was looking up at an angle

x reletive to the érvand and observed the »bject for
aporoxi-ately 10 segonds before it we- obscure: by some trees,
it avpeared to be about the sire of tne Average sirliner and ws
traveling aprroximatel 300 Mik, The larger end of tine cone anpeared
thicker than the average airliner is through the fuseluge but it we
about the sane length, The object displayed no lights other than it
appeared enenséed in flame, not light ur the area, There
wat RO vieible moans of support aad no contro) surfaces, There
were mo clourde and the wind wae fairly calm,

Williams stated thst he ws ® student p£lot but could not get
pilotfs license because of poor mieculsr coordination in his eyes,
Yie color pereeption was normal and his hearing ic excellent.

luve: tigative personnel stated toot Mr williems Se@sai a reliable
: :

leve

person.
stating that he (id not desire bie friends and business agquaintances
to josh him concerning the matter,

i@ appesred conscientious and desired no publicity

* Incident Nc

L?S

eo 23 Sept 198 = O95
erOTe, Si gnted Sante Fe, Hew Mexico

1 sy Ground, cin, SRY AAAS from Place of Sante Fe, KK,

¢ fh rags
OL VOServer:

A. Ruble Angier, 2620 Proctor St, Waco, Texa:

Beon Sign Mamfacturer - ow employer
A pilot since 1928 - not a hobby
Saw object glint wile watching another aircraft

1

toies:

At least 100 to 150 feet in diameter
white

perfectly flat in appearance - compared to
dime in sky,

Pijanty) 97 Sighted in daylight

25,000 to 30,000 feet

*¢ Tror

u/s
Stationary at time sighted
15 or 20 mimtee

4
bi ct(s):

v

Very little sovecsent if any noticed

Bo sound determined at time of sighting
ti f Tlignt of Cojcet(c) Stati
VIAN Rt Vons ructl in: Mot determined

Bo clouds

7 fs
‘ 4,°*

Mn. etiar + 14 + +

oO ~ Seemed to cove in a semi-
iy tae deen optical illusion,

Bo evidence of exhaust noticed
Still in view when observer left
site OF Si,:h' a GAvU

Gave the appesrance of being flat

Incident 175

Waile watching a government plane come in for o landing at Los
Alemos at O94 hours 23 Sept 1946, witness noticed something

glint in the sum. Focusing his attention on the object he per-
ceived that it was perfectly white, neither transparent or trans-
lucent and that it had no metallic sheen, It woe perfectly circu-
lar, the side visible to hin being flat - mech s coin. would
aypear when observed from a distance. it a pexcred mo lerger than
a dime. Lining it up in relation to tne tip of the radio tower

he backed off to the north, The object appesred clear out of the
picture in relation to the tower, Using this perspective he judged
the altituie to be approximately 30,000 ft. At this altitude the
object would necessarily be some 100 to 150 feet in size in order
to be visible at all. There were no projections, air-trails, or
exhgast of any kind. Ye called the object to the attention of

Mr Fairchild, his comanion, Both sen then went into o buil jing
transacted their Dusiness and at the eni of eight mimutes they went
atcide ami perceived the gbject in avproxzimately the seue position.
From the tine Angier first saw the object to ais last ob -ervation
wat ar roximately 15 to 20 mimtes,

GNTS BCT .3: Mp Angier is somroximately S years of age, well settled
and conducts his own busine s. de is an experience’ pilot, comes fro
a niidle-claes facily, ic a little above average in intelligence snd
is a good conversetionalist. ie told a straight-forward story and Ji
not contradict himself. He acpe:red honest in wis convictions in his
belief thet >= saw an umconventional aircraft. He war convinced that
the object wos mot a weather be loon since he is familiar with weather
balloons.

of Ubeerver: Mp Johm C, Pairohild

othies: Building Superintendent

ae Grawing, mechanical inclinetions giso woodworking
ted by! —-s @lint of Tight photography

: +Yen? 1

150 = 200 feet estimated size
bright silvery object
oblong egg shape

; 1 sew gust a silver streak

ae

30,000 feet

700 or 800 MPH

Bortheast - Southwest

of a ounflower shape at the end of object
4 to be epart from object but close on its tail

Sort

seem
over

5

1 pege?

Incident: 175s

Statement of Mr Johm C. Pairehild doe< not t lly with that of
A. Mable Angier, See Incident 175

Mr Fairchild saw a bright silvery oblong or egg-shaped object

wnich ane red to have a speed of 700 to 80 MPHand which seemed to
have a s0~t of cumflow'r shape _t the end of it but apart from the
object and close on ite tail. ‘“e percefved a bluish a vx rance to
reer of the object wiich could have beem exhaust. [> hia the object
appeared ailvwery instead of woite and oblong rather than round.

Mr Angier thought the object remained stationary. Howver the dis-
crepancy in time could have accounted for tnie, Apparently Hr Yair-
child observed the object sove 15 mimtes before Mr Angier obgerved
it. Also it wuld seem thet he watched it for « greater length of time
in that ne mentions thet it faded f-om view wheress Mr Angier stated
that it was still in view when he left.

bh.
f

eee |
Ay etl tt lilt, tape nama Ss ee tT

Incident Xo. 176
vate and Time of Oteervation: 23 Sept ug Approx 1200

Wnere Sighted: Qastro's Ranch - 4 miles due east of San Pablo, Calif and
____, Sek miles South of Pinole, Calif

aw tn 5

of Loserver: #lorace S. Bakins, Col., U. S. Arny (REP)
och Eather ‘Des, @almt Creek, Calif.
ation ard/cr hocdles: Retired army colonel formerly a veterinarian
presently employes as a Meat Inspector by Calif State Dept of Agr.
Attention Att ‘* Wee observing an Army bomber when he observed
i ‘ ee

2c!

About the size of a engine bomber - longer than wide

Main pert bf body translucent and of « dirty gray color
fToveitle) wm@mlating with center portion appearing
‘phertoa having the shape and depth similar to a globe - like amoeba

: _ Did not reflect or give off light of any type

ts

Over a mile

-*

Over a mile directly above
very fast speed
Gould not estimate
® seemed to flap or oscillate while center

spies remained stable
s): Ko noise
t(c) Wearly due east

Thought main part of object appeared like canvas

Ho evidence of exhaust
jast disappeared from sight in a very sort time
= there were very ins disaie “ha Ry a bry tine.
Peculizri td @ Noted: See drawing attached

)
i

Inci. t: 176

While watching an Aray bomber which was flying rather low, Col Makins
observed above ani going neerly dme east an unknow © ect. He asked

his companion, Mr Bentham, if he were seeing things, tham substantiated
the fact that there was an object above the bDomber. Col Bakine iescribed
the object as being epproximately the size of a lerge four~engine’d bomber,
It appeared undulating in shape resembling an ameeba (See sketch inclo<ed).
The object aype«red to have 3 appendages forward and 2 aft which seemed to
be flap ing or oscillating while the center portion resined etable, Col
Bakins toought it wos a mile or more above tie bomber, In the center of
the object there appesred a round, dark circle which, in Col Baking’ opinion,
seemed to be above the main body of the object. Further it appeared that
the main p=rt of the object was translucent and of a dirty gray color and
that the dark, circular portion ayprered to grow tore dense in color as

it approached the center, From this obserwation Col Balin: conclu ed that
the dark portion was spherical hewing the shane and depth of a globe.

Ha further stated that the main prt of the object appesred like canvas,

Re could not estimate the meed of the object but sali it wie traveling

at © far greater speed than the bomber or anything elee he had ever <een.
There was no noise of any typ® and no evicence of exhmust or trail.

The object dit not reflect or give off light of any type.

Vol Sekine prior to his retirement in [HS was on juty in Panama a
veterinarian with the Army mission, He retired because of personal
reason: ani mot Lec use of plysicul defects. ‘lowever, Col “akine is
faresightei ond nes to wear glaeres,. Keighbors an’ buciness a soGiates
established te frct that he i» uighly thought of and is reliable in all
nis ‘erlings and associations with tuem, He impressed the investigator
ws Leing stable, intelligent and above average in common sense.

Incident No, 176a
Were Sighted: Oastro's Rangh - 4 miles due east of San Pablo, Calif &
4.1 miles south of Pinole, Calif,

+4 CPoOntrnal tawer ats
sal, mitTOL tow

\
*e Ww */

Mr Sylvester Bentham, 2655 Dam Road
Richmond, Calif.
retired butcher
*

Gol Bekins calling his attention to the object
1

from obeerver's viewpoint to be 2 inches by
1 inch by 1 inch,
Baff or gray in color
itle) rectangular outline with sharp corners
ro attached drawing)
B/S

Very high

oy ee u/s
faster than any plane he had ever seen
At least 3 mimtes
horisontal flight
mo noise
ce) northwest then turned north

Seemed to be covered with a translucent material

Left no exhmst or trail

flew out of sight gradually fading from view.
of Sicht ine: B/S

Seemed like a vegetable crate flying thru the air

(over)

ica Doge)

Incident 176 «

On 23 Se:t 1948 Mr Sylvester Bentham was talking to Col
Rakins when the Col mel called Bentham's attention to a
single object im the sky. Object first appeared in the
northeast an! wis moving faster than any airplane that
Benthem had ever seen, Object aypeured very high. Both
Zekines and Bentham watched it for at le st 3 minutes. It
move’ toward the northwest in a straight line at a constant
speed finally turning to the North and faded from view.

To Bentham the object appe.red to have a regular rectangular
outline with sharp corners. It wa» boff or gray in color
with several darker vertical lines like ribs. (See drawing
attached.) Object eppexred like a “vegetable crate" flying
thru the air and evemed to -e covere with a translucent
material. It meade no noive and left no exhaut or trail.
Apparent sire was approximately ? inches by 1 inch by } imeh.
Mr Bentham's description az to the shape, direction and over-
all apnerance of tais object & in direct contr diction with
statements mide by Col liornce Bakins.

Mr Bentham further stated that neither lie nor col “Sakine
werring glasses at the tine and that he weare glnvsce onl)
reading. Mr. Bentham is 70 years of age. He a retired
vatcher,

Incident No. 277_
rvation! § Sept 4S detween 3:00 and 3:30 P. M,

a/S
very high eltitude

u/s
terrific

Object not seen

Unlike eny made by know aircraft

west

Umeneal sound

Object wae not perceived as it was too high and ging

GQ Doe

(over)

at a terrific rate of speed. Witmess states she has heard many planes
but could not describe the sound.

jubeequent investig: tion of this incident reveals that according to
peighbors Mrs McDaniel possesses a vivid imagination and that the
daughter was inclined to take efter the mother, Neither of the neigh-
dora heard any umu@mal mires in the vicinity.

wer te dary © We

2737 bacttic Egte Rd, —_—
Major, Usar - rated pilot ~

1 seem intermittently ~ ‘

Appeared 4 or 5 inches in dia from observer's viewpoint
“"Betinated = pd 10 to 15 feet in diameter

-t(s): Wright silver - comparable to alumimm in aircraft

\

ible) Pound or elliptical

, oe

M/SX No fleme or lights observed
9°

+

200 MPH

ion t: Obveerved intermittently, one time for 4 seconds, another
tor io seconds, the longest period.
eetice! Bo mancuvering - observed horizontal flight

+ \s

Bo sound noticed

voicct(c) Northeast om steady course
metallic

‘ffcet on Cleyis: . Glowd formation blocked vision of observer as object

was a en altitude detween the two cloud formations (See attached drvg)
Exienist gu tl ‘Coler of): Wo exhamst trail

erence:

Genes 180%. 3.500 ft;
bases 3 35 'tsi i ans oi té” comiine tooo fh ft; suave, 000 f
s Boted? not conventional craft Visibility: 15 a.

. 444
Peculisritik

C pege)

ancident: 178

Qn the afternoon of 15 October 1948 at approximtely 1705 hours Ma

Robert ©. Drum stated that he had observed a strangely shaped glistening
object in the north sector of the eky which was moving in a northeasterly
direction at an estimated altitude of 10,000 ft. A stratus layer of clouds
wis situated above the object at an approximate altitude of 14,000 feet.

The disc or discs were moving below thie layer of cloude in that it was noted
that on two occasions that the highest formation of clouds was at a greater
altitude than the object observed and that the lower ciowd formation blocked
the vision of the observer thus placing the object betwoen the two cl ud
formations or levels. Because of this lower broken cumius clouds at

a Very low altitude which was moving in s southwesterly direction, tue Major
could not scertain whether he aaw the sane dise four different times or

four different diece. Over a period of 10 mimutes the disc or discs were
sighted four times. The longest period of observation was estimate’ ss 10
seconds, The object or object(s) appeared bright silver in color and circular
or elliptical in shape. No wacor or exhaust was present and no fave or lights
were observed. Ho sound woe heard, Speed wus estimited as 2.0 MPH by using
an estimated 40 4): factor in the swirling build-up of cumalus clouds,

Maj Drum compared the disce with a silver 4ollar slightly turned from a flat
osition, giving the objet a disc-shape when held at arms length at a 46°
angle above eye level, Maj Drum thought that the elliptical effe:t could c ve
resulted from the angle at wiich the ob-erv r and object were located. Maj
Drum stated that he was certain the object was not « conventional cr ft.

One Be26 und one Bel7 and one PEMS were fl) ing in the vicinity during the

s9eind 02% /z to )34 iz.

The above sighting was also observed by Mro. Deus () J Drum’: wife) and by
ds feyr old damghter. Both repeated pr: Cicely the same observation: ststed
by the Major.

Observer was walking thru the Golden Gate Park, when he observed a

mysterious light that illuminated the entire ocean (insofar as ne could
see) He felt something “like an electric are” which seemed to have the
power to lower his hand "like a sack of shot", Observer states that he

is subject to bruises amd where the thing seemed to have contacted him
he noticed a bruise the following day that nad not been there before,

Be stated that he couldn’t find courage to report the incident since

he didn't believe anyone would believe the story. He does not wish a
further investigation,

NOTE: The account is very incoherent and the observer apparently

not well educeted, Am extremely unreliable account,

Objects seeued to take no definite course but flew in a general easterly
@irection in e gradual descent. A few came close enough to ca se the
pilot & compilot to duck as it appe red they might: come thru the nose of
the plane, Ma) Smartt's analogy is as follows: Take about 1/2 gallon
of woter end ‘um it 200 yarie in front of an approaching al about
200 feet above it, wit) the water taking the shape of a teardrop. These
objects appe red to travel in a straight line toward the aircraft and
edunlly descended, passing from view under the wing of the G17, The
apparent speed of these objects ape: red quite igh av they remained in
view for only @ second. They were sighted one at a time at interved of
three or four minntes,
*

Ascrepancies noted: In firet report Maj Smartt reoorted aceing 15 t

bjects. eter he revorte seeing three or four.

in first report be etutes tuat they pureed no
definite course in tuat some travele downwerd

and some traveled upward. In lact report he

does not mention thet ony pursued an upwerd course,

The analogy of comparing sighting of these objects
to 1/2 gallon of water dumped approximately 200
yards in front of cis aircraft and t'at teardrop
object» were formed seems to indicate an i pression
of a group of objects seen at one time (as first
reported) and not singly at intervals of three or
four mimates,

A cable from F2AP reported that an unidentified sircraft
sighted both visually and by rader by the pilot and redar
observer of an F=6) on 15 Oct 48 The observers think it
possible thet 2 unidentified aircreft were involved in the
intercention, The sigh@ings occurred at night; owever, thore
was sufficient monligit to perrit a silhouette to b discerned
aitnought no detiils wore clrerved. It was imossitle to ee
timste tne siee of the sirersuft or whether it was jet or pr
peller driven, No trails or ex:met flames were seen, The
tiie eirereft wos reported ac much greater than thet
the it also oui « nigh rate of acceler: tio t awld
straight up or down out of redar slevaticn lini?

wa

The object seeme4 cognizant of the wiereabouts of tue Feil -t
all times wileh right intic-te thet it erried ras r i ment.

+

The Feul interceptor airer. ft wc visible to groumd radar
periodically oe it flew in emi out of the sermanent groum! return
area in wich search war being conducted, ‘The only object picke
Uo by the ground raior was ie } { ~t weer
‘nterecentor (Pe61) ani + ' ' nting is ae fol owe:
ird picked ur

det mor »

‘ eee.
7

at
Your, five snd sixt
The

ar)

I 9 oils t at 1240 ft,
lust three sightings took place faring 2 10 mimite werind. ir
esdh instance the F=f) detect’ the object up roximately 9 miles
ahead, slowly closed to witiin 12,000 feet when the object »
suddenly accelerate speed, dive end disappesr from the airborne
Tudarscope. interceptor attempted to effect a nornal piclap by
diving after object but im ech case was unsuccesaful. After ix
sightings had been lost, »the odject was not again detected although

interceptor continusd to search the urea until approximate!» 0140.

25 feet long by & feet wide

B/S

‘

B/S
Broke up into mamerou bright particles

broke up into sumerous bright particles
ne: u/s
slow speed and the fact that it broke into merous
bright particles

(over )

coe)

Takun from Minneapolis Morning Tribune
21 October 1948

"CK! IT'S T3058 SAUCMRS AGAIN"
cd

.e. At Winona, Minn., Paul Zenk and Dr. 7. T. Benoit said they saw a
slowly traveling object wich broke u) into numerous bright particles over

the town at f he Me 20 Vet oT

They said it was about 5 feet long and eignt feet wide and
to be a™bunch of sparks with a tail."

WOT%: The above witnexses were not contecte from “1
Minneapolis, Minn. ee Incident 185 for re rt
nd Harold iver.

20 October 1948 at approx 0550 hours
Minneanclis, Minnesota

wor ats
’ \

dservers Lawrence A, liameen, 1498 B. Albert St, St Paul
Harold Cliver, 2929 13th Ave, South, Minnea>olis

*°8° L, Hamsem: teletype operator
H, Oliver? Mailman
8

ent | (seem at two different locations, in Minneapolis)
6 feet
orange flame colored

24.5 \

“<iC’ pound with tail 1/3 again as long as diameter of
Age odject. See attached drawings
Atys _, Mat of Boiling sheets of flame

~+

From 5,000 to 10,000 feet

u/s
3 times that ef jet aircraft

Seemed to follew a straight course, in a horisontal attitude
losing very a ee

pe

n+

South southwest to north nmorthecst.
"flane"
Disappe red behind cloud Benks to the north northeast
Col-r of)! Qodling sheets of flame
"rence: Behind cloud benk to the north northeast
Fromt of the object seemed blurred as if enveloped
in enoke - the rest of the min body ws a fiery

(Ss ¢ cottrened page) (over)

y : x + %
Incident No. 186

servation: 16 Oct 198 1145 in the morning

mile south and § miles due east of Sterling, Utah
ground ~ from mountain ridge at 9,000 ft

control tower, etc.)

Mr Fred Nash, 20 East Crystal, Salt Lake City,
Utah
Occupation and/or hotbies: Used car dealer and airplane mechanic
Member of Latter Day Saints Church (did misrionary work in Haweii)
Attention Attreeted bys sound of throbbing noise
) Seen: l
9 inches long, 6-inches wide and 3 inches thick
silver and black (silver stripe running down the center
s « of the underside) See drwe.
Mapes Loketeh if Foerible) similar to a flat football

hature of Lamino:

i» at, 4

~s

300 mph
4 seconds or longer
norizontal flight
throbbing noise or steady curr

Dircetion tligst of Chject(e north and a little west (in general
direction of Salt Lake City, Utah)

Apperent Cons

Effect on Clouds no clouds in the sky

Sxhemst Treil Color of): no visible sign of exhaust; however, an

Opening could be seen in the center of the object from the rear.

“nmr of Disromrrance: B/S

Weather Conditi-ns st Time of & ehting: calm with mo clouds in the sky

Peculirritics Note

Incicent: 16
SCANS S

_——

Mnile Mr Nash was hunting for deer on the morning of the 16 Oct us
he heerd a throbbing noise or steady purr. Upon looking up he

Saw an object resembling a flattened football some 500 feet directly
overhe:d. The object wes silver and black, # silver strive down

the center (from front to rear) and On both sides of tuys center

the object was black, It eppeared about 9 inches long, 6 inches
wide and Jinches thick and wee traveling in a straight line in a
hortherly direction a little to the west toward Salt Leke City, Uteh,
&t en estimated rate of 300 mph, There was no visible sign of exhaust
bat from the reer an opening could be seer in the center, Mr Nash
thought he saw a movement like a “paddlewheel", The object sounded
es it it were jet propelled and seemed to tx criven from the rear,
Mr Nash stated the sound wasn't like that of an aircreft engine nor
any type gesbline engine, although there wus « definite throb or
"put", "out", "put", He seid if it were & gusoline engine, it wus
muffled, It made s sound of steady Clicking, like a "s t

a a
ak

flap; ing in the wind." He thought the clicking Migit have bee
f camera, The object wes in sight a roximtely 4 seconds or

NOTE: Character investigation of Mr Fred Nash seers to indicste
reliability, He is a Used car devler end en eirnlane mechanic
and is in business for himself, Nash is a member in pood
Standing of the Latter Jey Saints Church (Normen) he ving

done foreign missionary work in Hawaii,

While Mr Nash claims to nave excellent eyeright, his estimat
of distances wos found to be fanlty « Agent asked Nash how
high he thought a certain tree was - Nash stcted thst it wv g
"over one hundred feet high." Agent estimated the tree to be
about 4O feet high as comm red te ® power pole which towered
above it,

rvation! Jag 19, 1948 at 1090 Rastera
Godman A? Base, Ky

Godueh AF Base, Ky |

rtre) taweor
fietOC. LOWlT,

erver? Lt Gol Johm Wengh, Busoutive Officer
14
Reecative Officer, Godmen Field

): Wright silver coler - reflecting sun

saty? xetleoticn of sunlight on silver
thought to be between 30,000 & 40,000 rt

n/s

Moving to the Southwest

at scarcely discanible speed
approx 2 hours
Seemed to appeer stationary

ntl a)s
Vs

Southwest

net w/s.

itics Noted: Mailerity ef Altitude and Asimmth readings taken
that of Pleact ¥
v of Inciécnt: aaah

Incident: 187

At 1050, 19 Aug 1948, the Wright-Patterson Plight Service Center

wes notified by Lt Col John Wemgh, Brecutive Officer, Godman

AF Base, Ky, that an unidentified flying object was visible from

the groum at Godman AMB, The object was ascertained to be at
arnroximately 30,080 to 40,000 feet altitude, ical in shape,
bright silver color and giving off a wright reflection from the

mm, An F-5l was dispatched fron Standiford AFB, Ky, to observe

the object. At 11323 a mesage received from Godman stated mo change
in elevation of the object and reported that it seemed to be moving
‘outhweet from Godman AFB st approximately 235° at an elevetion of
60° from Godman AVB, ‘The F-5l was flying at 30,000 to 35,000 ft at
tbe time and could not locate the object. ‘owever, the object was
visible from the ground with the naked eye and asimth and elevation
readings were being taken by theodolite every mimite and toe progress
of the object was being charted, At 1219 B19 Ang 1948 Maj

Mitchel, Operntions Officer at Godman ATVB, notified Wright-Patterson
Plight Service Center that the unidentified object was ascertained

to ve the planet Venus, Thin information wac given the Coumsnding Officer
Godman AFB by Mr Moore, Heed Astrologer, University of Lobisville, Ky.
fois aseamption was verified by NCI later the same day.

Radar Sighting of Unknown Aireraft
Reported from AAP Goose Bay, Labrador
Incident: 188

Sighting occurred at 06122 29 Oct 1948 when an unidentified
object spperred on Ground Gontrol Approach, Seone was @ proximately
two miled’from center of ficld on a bearing of 170°, Object treveled
about two miles and disappeared, Mo report on altitude was determnined,
Betinated rate of speed war 25 to 30 MPH, GCA operator called in
another operator te verify his findings, Object again ape: red at
J6L9Z and remained in scope until OB252, At 0819 the object appeared
on a bearing of 090° and moved slowly in @ wide arc to 270° and again
disappeared. Object again anverred at O9L6Z east of the field on a
hesding of 270° shout 2 miles distant from the field in perfect allign-
ment with runway 27. It appeared to be the same ae an aircraft
Spproach for landing. Sige Sppeared to be the same as that of an air
craft at either extremely low or extremely high altitude. Object was
very clear on GCA scope at all times, Plotting on base map indicetes
that object was in Vicinity of Hamilton iiver at’ the time of the first
spotting. The second Spotting plecei it in the imedinte vicinity of
Lake Melville and Dock Area.

Incident: 159

While acting as copilet om a C7 aircraft emroute oo ee ad
haxiliary Pield #2 to Turner AP Base at oopietieetely 530
22 Sept 48, Lt Mertin 0, Rubisoh observed an objec ae
at an angle of about 25°, The O-li7 at the time was —.
Turner Field from the Southwest at en altitude of about oe
The object appeared to be about 500 feet lower and shout 2,000 to
1500 feet away and traveling at am estimated _— agin peed
Lt Rabiech stated that the object & peurec abou ns Seat daliniinss
adio controlled model airplane (5 to 10 ft). He could not 4 r
the auape but said he could not observe wings or rudier, He — ee
ive no other descrintion other than it wae 2 metallic shiny object,
fo one elee aboard the O-li7 observed the object,

Ability to deternine color, s of moving objects and sive at
distence was determined excellent, however the observer's §
Commander wes interviewed and he stated thet Lt Rubisch is inclined

to exaggerate and is a person w ove opinion i= not highly regarded
by asxociate officers,

snag ee was able to closely cogroborate information given by him
at first interrogation, though the interrogating officer was inclined
to think that Lt Rubisch was Given to exaggeration. It wes tne

o inion of the interrogating officer that the observer was of normal
inte’ ligence and sound character,

;

;

’

|

i

i
PN RE SABRES

Incicent: 190

On 11 October 1948 at approximately 1300 hours an unidentified
object was observed by six milit-ry personnel of 86th Fighter Wing
Seubiberg AF Base, Neubiberg, Germany. Object was estimated to be
at 40,000 ft on s 50° heading from Beub AP Bare and was
sightec continuously for 45 mimtes, gradually becoming emaller and
emaller - apparently rising but no change in compass direction wes
moted and it was apparently not infiuenced by the winds aloft,

Tne visible circumference of the object appe red round but it could
not Do ascertained if it were diso-shaped or balli:t-chaped, It
wa eilver in color and wery shiny in the rays of the sum, An
A= craft flying Detween the object end the obserwere on the ground
@ vesred small in relation to tue size of the object. The estimated
altituie of the jet was 25,000 ft. Object ws lost to view when a
thin layer of clouds (estimated to be at about 20,000 ft) passed
between the object and the grdund coververs,

‘igh reliability iv given tne personnel sighting thie object.

Incident: 191

At 1545 Cot 24 Oct 1948 Capt Glenn Buber, Base S-3 Officer,

Ft Riley, Kamsns, sighted an unidentified metallic object
proceeding in a general westerly direction, The object was

Views’ from a groumd position 10 miles from Junction City, Kansas,
Altitude appeared ower 7,000 feet. It was traveling with the
speei of a fast airersft, It then turmed south at a eneed
qrvater them any eircrcft he had ever seem, Visibility ms
excellent, W@ind South-Southeest.

Incident: 192

hile motoring on U. 3, Highway #52 in a northwestern direction
om the outekirts of Moorhsad, Minnesota, Mr. L. G. Sandere &
wife observed = lignt traveling in an east to west directioa.

- Senders first observed the Light which was to his right and
Ointe! it out to bis wife mo also Clearly saw it. Visibility
st the time was dc. Observer estin.ted that be could have seen
a plane at tie distance he estimted the object to have been,

speed wis two or three times faster than a plane. Both

agreed that it could not have buen a meteor because of the length
of tine it me visible ani becuse the direction of f1 ight war a
clight rise ratuer than down,

On October 1948 butwoen 1200 and 1430 houre an unidentified
flying object was sighted from a housing project 2 milew wert of
Seubiberg Air Porce Base by nen of the base. When sighted the

object we: between observer and

The wun wai bigh, Altitude of the object wilch was persuing a southwest
course could not be determined, Visible Circumference wie round but
Overell shape and sige eould not ve determined. The color was black.
“pee: could not be estim.ted but appesred faster than F-'7 type aircraft.
Object vighted for aporoxim tely simates,

Bralustion! Baz

Original report wes clessified top-secret, Strategie Air Command
requested criginal messages be deetroyed.

At 10240 A, M. om 3 Nov 6 two Mustang fighters of the S24 Fighter

Wing were dispatched to investigate the sighting reported by Lt

Com Pain, a Goast Guard pilot, wav reported the original sighting.

The pilots upom resching 22,000 feet sighted the unidentified object.
They kept om climbing until they reached 37,000 feet. They estimated
the object to be another five or six tucusend fest above them, At this
height the object resembled am intestine that had been inflated and

it anpe red 5 to 6 times higher them wide, Sketches vere not available.
Speed was estim ted to Le abont 2 mph, Heading apvroximately 45*/

First report by Strategic Air Commend identified the object tentatively
as a heavenly hody.

Subsequent information received by Lt Roherkemper, Coast Guard Officer
stationed at Salem identified the cr.ft as a comic ray equipment carrier
used by MIT, Later it was definitely established that the craft sighted
was a clu ter of eight balloons ued by MIT for comic ray research.

This incident is omeidered closed in that definite idemtity has been
established,

Incident 196

Target picked up om OCA Scope at 21452 1 Mov at 3-3/4 miles

“ring of 123° from st tion. Traveled on «
heading of approx 249° an4 disappe red ot 7-1/2 m'les on p becring of
1g2° from the stction, Blip traveled the i miles in 4 mimates and
7 seconds timed with a Stop watoh. A speed of @pproximately 6) PH,
Operator stated blip we too amall at Jol/2 miles to de on dremaft
and too large to be a bird. Wind oa frome?) to 300% and at 5 te 10
MPH, Target witnessed }- > GCA oper: tors

A nc tts
—————

5th Now 194g
At approximately 0435 A. u./a womam phoned fhe PalladiumlItem, Richmond
Indiana to eck if they hed observed a Light in the east which she stated
resembled @ flare nanging from a parechute. Mr. Dale Steven, a sports
writer, on the newspeper was in the office at the time and adviced that
he would chek on it. Imoodiately after the woman hung up 4 mam cc lled
with a similur statement, Mr. Stevens them looked out the window and
sow & brilliant white light a bit south of east. It seemed to flicker
& gtest deal and anpeared auch larg r than a ctor so he discounted the
sossibility of it being » heavenly body. Lining it up with e corner of
a cert:in building and observing it for a few mimtes he perceived no mve-
ment. He then called the police but they knew notiing of it. He then
went to the uwper roof and watcied it for some li mimtes, Coming dom
he got a camara ond took a time exvosure of it. lowever, uncom bis return
to the roof the object appesred dimmer due to an overenst. Witlin five
more mimites the esky was overcast from low clouds estimated to be at adout
1,000 feet, When the odject was first observed the nivht wos clear with
ters out. Mr, Stevens thought the size of the object appeared about 5 to
10 tices thet of a norm] ster, He took two pdctures of the “floating Light!

Mr, Stemane is considered to be « tructworthy pernon, fis employer, Paul
J. Ingels st ted that he will attest to obtain as many true fects as vor ible,
Ye considers his honest and sinceve. Hr. Stevens ie 2 member of the
loe:l Junior Chamber of Commerce.
Astromoner
Check with Brofessor Suivid Telfair/of Zarlhem College revealed that if
wie the Professor's opinion that it couldn't hove deen a stor

Qheck with MCIA‘Z="3 elicited the et..tement tnat the enoroxinuie burning

time of Us\WF Paraciute Flares never exceeds 5 to § mimtes and that they

are moctly designed for a”burning tice of only 3 mimtes. There ie, \owever,

& Tow Type Acrial Fl. re that consi te of several three-minute flares

which ie towed as o chaine behind en airoraft (but never crovped by a verachute)
end which are designed to burn one at a time to frcilitiate night trecking

omd gumpery prvcticles. Suggested obtaining of TX 91961 to compare
photogre;s.s of flare photographs with thetetaken by Mr. Stevens.

describ an object
In “Look” magazine doted 22 Nov 8 there was an © ticl fenton pe.red
in the firet gray light of down on how G- it wae aw bright white dell with
a filay white tall. + rley ¥ood, sn astromoner in aydney, flashed the
word that one of the most spectacular comets yet to appesr in this century
hed made its appecramce in the sky over Australia, Three days later
erly risers in the southern ani we tern porte of the U. 5, were able to ob erve
this body with the naked eye. ‘The comet wis visible for a bricf & nimtes
before it wis obscured by the eun's light.

ate and Tin Otservation: 6 Nov 19UE 1157 br
Waere Sighted? Immediately above Rader Site at Wekkemai, Japan

+ 4
oP R mA 23") aantea? uaaw tn
*) &F VM, all> SOEtTOL toy =» CA «/

ire-2 of Chservor: a/3
Blip om the radar scope

Target at first appeared as single craft and
at tines as 2 aireraft

normal for aircraft on radarscope

(Odject was not observed visually at any time)

t free tbs e:. re Gould not be estimated

eject: Varying - from 160 miles to 240 niles ver hour

Gireled radar site contimously for one hour and 5 mimtes

t at tines sion of 2 fighter airoreft dogfighting.
— : vt fe figh dog-f ighting

iccting: Kew & high cloud formatioca
unknown height.
G@ppeered single and at tines gave
—™ ef 2 adrereft in vicinity
cident! over

(See ettrened pogo)

Summore af Ir
2 has SER a, 22 i

Incident: 198

Target appesred in ground clutter area during entire period of observation
Terget was not observed in etation area, and was not observed visually at
any time, At times the target appesred as 2 aircraft and at another time
as a single aircraft. Gave impression of 2 fighter craft dog-fighting.
Braluated as Soviet aircraft conducting electronic reconnaissance mission.
Thought to de a Soviet "Ferret" sine the object ws comute! to have held
a speed of 200 MPH ané since the sive of blip on redarscope was normal

for on airer-ft. The unidentified aircraft circled (20 mile radius)
continuously for one hour and five mimtes immedintely above radar cite
installed at wokkanei, Ho mthorized alrersft was in the vicinity.
Weather conditions precluded viewal observation,

ov

Date aria Time of Otservation: 30 Oct 1948 1430 PS?

Wnere Sighted: 15 miles northwest of Grays Harbor, Washington
Lae 10 miles off coast

NOT OL eter ete ee et ee 2 northerly

i erontrol

uir, cor ( course at 240 MH
~oserver: Major Morris, Pilot and l4 Kunesen,
“sists alt toather Fighter Sq, 325th Fighter Gp, MeQhord AF Base, Washington
pation and/ ho : As above
5/S
Seen: from 10 to 20
Bo idea of sise - could not be deterrined

yellow then white
nevible) wundeternimed - thought they were egg-shaped

mis = HB outstanding reflection

Approx 8,000 ft

rv tt teo far away to deter-ine a

definite
+: Gould not de estigates

20 seconds

horizontal flight with no apparent change of eltatate & not
a ee ee ee

Coj cts): me sound

Dirceti gnc if of Cojcet(e) Westerly course for about 17 seconds,
Effect on Clouce: &/S
Zxheust Trsil Color of): Me evidence of extumst

nmr of Disspp -rance: Seemed to dissolve - thay dida't go far enpugh
to fade from view

Weotmr Conditions at Tita of Sictting: 5 mile visibility - fog and anc
Peculicritics Noted: Appear tramelucent
Summary of Incident: (over)

(See ctteched page)

Incident: 199

hen Lt Konenen the objects they appeared as a very small compact
group. At at 1000 ofclock position. Later

thay seemed to string out to an in-line

could not identify anything. At the

time there were clouds Up and down the const but none in the observer’
vicinity. The first @lor
the color appeared wiite, At that time
gulls, Thought there vere from 10 to 20,
identify any object. He saw something and mentioned it to Maj Morris
the pilot who was fairly busy at the time and didm't sea the objects,
Objects came around to a 3100 o'clock postition in approximately the
some type formation and white in color, then made a” turn back to
@ 2:30 position, paralleling the course of the F-82-P and then faded
mach as an exhaust fume from em airplane would. At first the object
sppeared yellow them changed to white. The shape seemed to
slightly. He thought that they looked
thay anopeared rather translucent - imcediately before disappearance.
(In this respect it is pointed out that there was fog and scoke in the
vicinity according to weather reports for toe vicinity of Grays Harbor)
Bo estination could be made as to size. Object» disappeared on a
northerly course. Mo evidence of eegressive or evasive tactics.
Speed could not be estimted.

Incident }
Yate and Time of Observation: 17 Oct se 16102
Waere Sighted: Crescent City, Calif
Odserver's Poeition: ground
€., €round, air, control tower, etc.)

l Address of Observer: Edger W. Allen, 3rd and Leuf Ave,,
: Crescent City, Calif,
Yecupation and/or hotbies: Barber

f
\ae

Attention Attracted by: Glint of light
25 feet long
silver

egeshaped with fins

(5,000 to 25,000 feet) - Mr Allen thought 10,00 ft,
2 miles
of 2b Trom se st) uta ~ was seen laterally

st ts 08 angle of cM ‘from horizon

2 to & mimtes
Tectica: Made 1 short bank and then regimed course
sound
Dircetion of Fligut of Coicct(s southerly
solid construction - like nickel plated

Exhaust Treil Color of): None
“ammr of Disappocerence: Faded from view
Weothr Conditions at Time of Sighting: Ceiling: Unlimited - visibility

20 miles
Peculicrities Noted: Object shaped like tullet - no wings being noticeable

Summary of Incident:
(Seo attached page)

|

Incident:

About 1610, 17 Oct 1948 while at nis home at 3rd and Lauf Ave,,
Crescent City, Calif, B. W. Allen sew a Silver colored object at
an estimated height of about 10,000 ft which resembled a plane
traveling at high speed, Object was shaped like a bullet, no
Wings being noticeable, However, @ tail structure wa: visible,
The object had the eppecrance of being nickelenlated, No
or noise was noticeable,

amo ke
Mr Allen is a man between “5 and 50 yrs of age and

remutation among frien:’s and neighbors, is of average
“nd good character,

Locel flight schedules revealed no known flights, No
test vehicles in vicinity at the time,

NCIDRHT SRAARY oie T -
Incident No, @00s

Date and Time of Observation: 17 Oct 1948 - 1610
Where Sighted: Crescent City Light Station

t's Position: ground
ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer: Andrew W, Siler, Grants Pace, Oregon

Occupation and/or hobbies: Fishersan

Attention Attracted by: sound which came from piper cub plene flying
in vicinity
Number of Odject(s) Seen: 1
¢ i Hey K/ >
Size of Object(s): ie
Color of Objcet(s): silver
Shape (Sketch if Possible) egg-shaped - sikilar to blimp

Nature of Luminosity? n/S
(dirceted bewm of Mgnt?)

Cb4ec ct:

(estim toa)
stimat

stimated Inc
Time in Sight:
Tactics:
Sound o.ade by
Direction of
Agperent Construc
Effect on Clouds?
Exhaust Treil ‘Color of):
Manner of Disappanrance! did not notice
Weather Conditions at Time of Sighting: CAW-- visibility 20 miles

Peculisritics Voted! Wo wings or tail structure

Summary of Incident:
(See otteched page)

Inciient: 200a

At about 1610, 17 Oct 1948 Mr Andrew N. Siler, a fishernan, heard the
sgund of a plene. Looking up he saw a silver-colore4 ege-shaped object
that had the appesrance of a small blimp traveling south at ebout 300
mpn., Bo wings or tail structure wis visible nor was th

visible. No noise was heard from the object.
observer's attention came from « small piper cu
did not watch to observe where the object went

re any smoke
The sound which attract
ib type plane, Mr Siler

of Observation: 17 Oct is 1610

Crescent City, Calif
ground

rver's Position:
i, @., ground, ai control tower, etc.)
City, Celi

Ernest Haley Box 46, Creseent C
Dry Cleaner
glint of light
1
Unknown
ukeemm Color
like smell plane

ity: reflected light
flaw t?)

Between 20 and 25,000 ft

~t*

4 to 5 mimtes

Mede a 45° turn and bank to the right, then mde sharp turn

to the douth
): none

sf
by Cojcct(s):

southerly

Agpparcnt Const

et on Cloude:
Treil ‘Color of): none

Manner of Disappccrence? gredually disappe:red

Weath r Conditions at Time of Sighting: cevu

None

Peculicritics Noted:
(over)

Summary of Incident?
(See ottnched pege)

At ebout 1510, 17 Oct 1948 Mr Ernest Haley saw a smell
object resembl ng se small plane proceeding in a soutnerly 4

5, E. of Battory Print, Creseent City, at an altitude between oC
25,000 feet, The object remained in view for 4 to 5 minutes,
time it made a 45° turn and bank to th ; bright
came from the object as the sun bit ol

sharp turn to the south and

Mr Haley is about 47 years of a of good charecter and rerut
and of average intelligence. fi ons i reliable,

ch

vate and Time of Observation:

Nnere Sighted:

fh ~ - | b= ‘ .

Otserver's Position:
>

L\2e Cay

Name und Ajdres

s of

nh oy 2 s/ +1.
vocupation and/or hobbies:

Attention Attrected by:
Number of Object(=)

Ve

seen!

Tactics:
20 ind wd
On 4

Vu

pe
ffuct on Clouds:

Zxheust Trail Color of):
Menncr of Diseupcorance:
Weathcr Conditions at Time
Peculicrities Noted:

Sumery of Incident:
(See attached page)

Observer:

Mede s sharp benk of sbout 45° to the

Ve

17 Oct 1948 1610

Crescent City, Calif

ground

. 4
ground, uir, control tower, etc.)

Mre Elise Henggi, ASD $...A.
Crescent City, Calif
housewife

ot.,

Glint of Yignt

1

reflected light as lisht against a mirror

rignt, resumed course

(oe)
ctie)

whho
u/s - presumebly metellic

/S

Southerly

none noticed

R/S - dieepperred at sea

A ~+

Sighting: CAVU

wif «= Brightness of the object

6 RS ST OI

While conversing with Mr Erneet Haley on Battery F
city, Calif, Mre Elise Hengei, housewife, tew a smu]
object that reflected light. The object wus elliptic ir

was traveling very faet in a southerly direction und remair
tight for 2 mimutesa, It was tr:veling about 5,000 feet
a plane flying north, Shortly after sighting,

bvank of about 45° to the right then reamed its
to sea. No emoke or noise was heard from the o!
the object gave off e dbrjlliant flash like that

“ww
glase mirror.

ne od je
J

Mrs Henggi ie 70 years of age, of Swiss extpection, an
time resident of Crescent City. She is of gverage intel
and has a good churacter end reputction, She had no
range or altituce, She thought the object different
airborne carft she nad ever seen, The brightness
impressed her most.

epproximate speed thought to be around 160 HP

Didegipé ted Beliidd ‘clouds ; .
vieibility 15 miles, winds from southwest at rer

Po o

Incident: 201A

At approximately 02302 31 Oct “8, Steff Sgt Joseph J. Barnett pointed

out an object to PFO Robert R. Anderson woo described it as being

round, orange in coor and larger than a eter. Object was moving in

a northerly direction at an estimated of 800 MPR, Altitude was
estimated as 2000-3000 feet above the clouds which were reported to be

at 2500 feet. This would give an approximate altitude of from WO to 5500
feet. Object would swing forward and them baciomrd bat always maintained
ite forward velocity, Object was seen for approximately 2 mimtes before
it disappeared benind e clowd. Mo sound waz heard.

Incident: 201 B

Vlas described object as a light bald moving upward and forward at an
estimated speed of 25 to 30 MPH. Object was white with a yellewish tint
and was proceeding in a northerly direction and steadily gained altitude,
Object iisappecred behind a cloud and could not de loc. ted again. Wo vapor
trails moticed and no aound heard,

It wes the opinion of A-2, that object sigttd in exch instance was a
weather balloon with a light swinging from it,

Date and Time of |
Wrere Sighted:

Tn « “te Dinet $e nwne

(i. e., eround, cir, contrel tower, etc.)

ol Voserver: Band J, Cisek, 108 bh l4verpool St

a par Jamaica, long Island

cobbles: Givilgem Dispatcher, Hewark AF Base. Regul.r
Yoruer Capt, USAFR,

Seme relative diameter ac the mon but with little
or no depth (thickness)

pale luminous - 1/3 brightness of mon

4
A0iv)

dise = round with little or ner depth

ye sppeered as lumibous object

5.000 ta 6,000 ft
one second or less
meade arc toward south southeast ~ performed comparatively
horizontal flight
o) Cbj.ct(s): me sound

south southeast
B/S ~ luminous

— Ls

sifect
Exheust Trail

Ammer of Discpns

BPS Passed oat of sight over another hanger.

Weoth r Conditions ct Tine of Sighting: Moomlit night - clear

Peculivritice Noted: QORject seemed to hawe no depth and maintained a
steady luminosity

Sumtnry of Incident: (over)

(See attrched page)

33423

At 1850 hours, 8 Nov 4S, Rdmund J. Civek was standing just outside Hanger
#7, Newark AF Base, when glancing up toward the moon he perceived a pale
luminous object race across the eky. It was about 1/3 the brightness of
the mom, round like a dise with little or no depth (thickness). It
appeared to be about the same relative diameter as the moon and was traveling
from the north northwest in an arc toward the south southeast. Object was
seen about one second or less. It pasved out of sight over another hanger.
Ho sound was herd. Speed wes estimated at 600 MPH, Observer states that
he had observed jet sircrsft sake tactic.1 approaches at approximately 600
mph and judged the speed of the object wa: at least 200 mph faster. From
where be stood Cisek could see ep roximately 75% of the path of the object.
Toe peak of ite arc was approximately 45° above the horizon to the west
southweet of bis pasition. Altitude was juiged to be 5,000 to 6,000 feet.

Me Cisek is a very reliable employee, highly intelligent and of exce! lent
character,

There were mo reports of commercial, private and military craft flying in the
vicinity at the tine.

No reporte were received relative to po “ible releases of tecting devices in
the vicinity.

At 1640 Nov 6, 19h¢ Operstor Solera when making a OCT weather report
stw what appecred to be a comet in the southe: st quadrant of the sky,
It had # long cone of light which ened in a star lurger tian Vems,
I¢ remained visible to tne naked eye for myproximately 4 nimtes
umtil beginning of sunlight dimmed the brilliance of the phencnena

and fv') sunrise obliter: ted it. Appeared to uuve about four gr ‘cs
of intensity in the tail

Om Bow 6, 1918 (Rov 5 ~ Usa time) Dr Harley wood, astronower in Sidney,
dactralia recognised a new an! extraordinary comet which had u tai)
extending for 15 million niles.

Three days later early risers in the southern and western parts of the
U, S, were able to observe the rere celestial body With the naked eye.
Moving clote to the eun but away from it at a speed of about 128,000 Bh,
the comet won visible for a brief | nimutes before obscured th by the
sum's light,

a
See attached reprodnction taken from Life

(Thais to ve submitted to Dr Hynek for nis view.oint ac to whether the

object reported and the comet sentione; in this article are one and the
same. )

12 Mov 1948 = between 1300 and 1400
Northeast portion of Clark AP Base, Phillipine Islands

Wnere Sighted:

i-~

Sgt Fredrick M. Yr » 18th Maintenance Sq
14th Main & Sapply Clark AF Base

Sgt, US

“Shite speck
t ~ a

length of fuselage
Betimated Sige: ft ft body at wings;
Wings 47-1/2; wide os Lf ft
snow-whi te

\

Slo) See attached

3 to 6 miles high

20 to WO miles
Paster than jet plane
B/S = observed interuittemtly tora cloud formation

Flying sround Clark AF Base - no def:
_, Merfnomtal Hight ~

mo definite heading - flew around
Clark AP Base
Similar to plane

= entered end broke out of cloud eix tines

@ppeered to leave en exhanst trail

from tail-end of mentioned object - "It
appeured to be sky writing"

Lng
miles,
Appeared to have no tail assembly ~ straight body

(enerjnt off from directly above the wings to emall poin
Bn aaa

YANO seat tered, visibility 30

|
|

Incident: 206

Sgt Wright stated he wes watehing some cloud formations in the North-
east portion of the esky when he observed a white speck materialise and
lengthen ont. At first he thought it was sky~writing but as it con~
timed to advance he thought it eappesred as a wole unit. Object

purgued a northwestern direction and entered a very larze cl-~wd formation
Ae the object emerged on the northwect by north side the odject appesred
larger and he was able to get @ clearer view. The object amperred snow
white. At ome time Set Wright was able to obtain a side-view impression
It seemed as if the side surface wis broken by windows, The nose, too,
was sort in comparison to the length. There was definitely a

formation - low wing and very short in comparison to the lengto of the
fuselage. Sgt Wright perceived the object six times thru the cloud
formation, in various attitudes - see attached drawings. Sgt wright

in bis drawing estimates the length of the fuselage to be 300 feet.
owever, he sta'ed that it would ce imposcible for mim to estimate

the length of the object if the croft was using rear type of propulsion
and utilising a fnel that left a wiite extamst. Puselage apparently

had no tail assembly. It an ecred e etraignt body tapering off from

‘rectly above the wings to a very szail mint.

Braluationt [m5 « igt “right’s character and sis onesty are questionable
according to the interrog.ting officer.

* TROLLENT ;
Date and Tine of Otservation: 18 Bor 1948 2us houre
Wnere Sighted: - Gireling Andrews AP Base, Oemp Springs, Md
‘ead

\
}
Pe,

Odserver: 2& Lt Kemwod W. Jacksom, 1326 28th St, S.E.,
Washington, D. C.
hotbies: 2d Lt AFR ~ talephone cableman

Oval, mo wings or tail eurfices
Seemed to give off a dull glow

1700 te 8,000 ft

it: 15 to 18 mimtes

Tactics: Byasive tactice - contimed to circle field, “Could climb
werweenhiys _ thee tare Vs and contime to circle field
d i ctls $

t(c) Mertheast - Southwest

Climbed out
of sight toward northeast
Werth r Conditions « mu Of Sighting: GAYU - mo clouds, hase or «noke

Peculisritics Noted: Me wings or tail surfaces ~ extreme maneuverability

(over)
a |

‘

Incident 207

Object first signted at approximately 2145 18 ov 4g, It was flying from
northeast to southwest across Andrews field at 1700 feet. Plane then
descended from 4,000 ft to osme altitude a: object woich was then coming
back across Anirews Field from the Southwest on a Northeast heading.

Object and plane then flew in circles, object on outer circle. Plane followed
it to 7000 ft, While climbing plane mide 3 to 4 passes at the object to
identify it. As plane descenied at approximately 240 MPH object would then
climb vertically, drop below plane from benind and contimed Circling the
field, Yn a last effort the plane awitehed on « landing light and the
object momentarily gave off a dull glow. It appeared oval with no wings and
no tail surfeces, After the object was sighted in the landing light, it
headed to the Northeast climb ravidly. Plane lost sight of object at
8,000 ft; the time was then 22:03

Weather at the time: CAVU - no clouds, hase or smoke.

Taken from signed str tement of Kenwood #. Jackwn, 24 Lt,

Statement corroborated by Glen L, Stalker, 2nd Lt, USANH,

tent ee hare i ote sh
INCITEST SUMMARY oni?

207A

Date and Time of Observation: 4g gow hg 2200 hours

Where Signted:
oii Bast over Andrews AF Base, directly over Camp Springs, M4
Observer's Fosition: Adr

(i, e., eround, air, contrel tower, etc.)

Name und Address of Observer: Henry G. Combs, 24 Lt, USAFR
Occuvation and/or notviesRLl S, Cepitol 5t., Wasaington, D. C,

Attention Attracted by: movement of lone moving lighted object
Number of Object(>) Seen: 1
Size of Object(e): Smaller than a T-6 type aircraft
Color of Object(e):- @ull gray (whitieh grey)
Shave (Sketch if Poestble) Oblomg ball, mo wings or tail surf.ces (oblong
; Ps ovate
Ksature of Luminosity: Seened to have hed ome contimious glowing wiite light
(dircetcd beam of Light?) Could not determine whether source of light
exineted from entire object or wee exhaust type in mature.
an ore nf Object? 17OO ft to around 7500 ft
estimated,
Estimated Distanc. of “bject from “bs rvir: Approx 300 to 4Oo feet on one
instcmce
SO to 6&0 HFE
Time in sight: 10 to 12 mimtes
Tactics: Bvasive controlled tactics and ability to*perform tight circle
quick veri tion of air speed. Vertical ascents, Bvasive sovemcnts
Sound bade dy Cbjctle): 8/6
Dircetion of Flight of Coject(c) Bast to West in circular pattern
Agpercnt Construct! m: metallic
Effect on Clouds n’/S
Txhouet Trail Coler of): mo exhaust flame

Yemmr of Disoopenrance: u/s

23. Weather Conditions ot Mac of Sighting: GAVU, mo smoke, hase or fog. Pull

BOOCR.
ou, Peculicrities Noted: Mo wings or tail structure; extrese maneuverability -
highly evasive sovemcats, high rate of acceler: tion.
2.  Samary of Incident: (aver,
(See attached pege)

At @pproximtely 2200 hours Lt Henry G. Combe sighted an object flying on a
360° from West to Rast over Andrews AF Base. The object had one contiguous

glowing white light. Combs thought it was an airersft with the wing
navigation lights turned off or burned out, He then mde a pass to check,
Object then took evasive action, First contect established at 1700 feet
over Anirews AF Base, When object sturted teking evasive ection, Combs
navigntion lights off. Maneuvering his siir so
woul’ not be noticed in an effort to get the object
om hie left he eded to close in but the object quickly flew up and over
his aireraft, fees Ooabe attempted to maneuver the object between nis ship
emd the light of the moon. ‘his was done by making very very tight 360°
turns with flaps down while making a steady climb, Object wis able to
turn insite of Combs' sircreft even under this condition, Anotner amazing
feature wes the quick variation of eirepeed from 8 MP to 500 or 600 5
Combs remained in contact with the object for some 10 mimtes with the
object Bbetwean the lights of Mmsnington, >. ©. and his eircreft. ‘le could
only see an odlong ball with one aight umd no wings and no exiumet flome.
Trying to close in again ce remsines in waght of it up to GO0O fect, then
Gown to 3500 feet to O00 feet wut it élways eacily evaded him. Then
object amd Gombe fkew climbed up to 7500 feet. Combe pulled back up sharply
anc come up undernesth the object wit in 500 to 400 feet. ‘le then turned
bis landing lights on it. It nad a vy: ry dull gray glow to it ani ws oblmg
in shape as wentioned before, Object then performe: o very tight curve and
headed for the Bast const at about 500 to 600 MPH,

1) Object was highly maneuverable,
2) Seemed avare of the Presence of a following aircraft
) ¢ Capable of almost vertical flight
) Was emaller in size that 1-6 type airer ft.
f

Witnesses agree that )

Witnesses were uncertain as to Waether source of light ob«erved eninated
from entire object or was exhast type in nature.

Date and Tine of Otservation:

17 Mov kg 1430 hours
Waere Sighted: @yaey gp Base - e stern edge of

%. Obcerver'! 6 Posi

+4are
4
~ y , 4 + + oy a“
(4, e€., ground, uir, contre r, ete.)

itr, htrol towe
Lane

i Peay es Figrer'8 T — Tein Pigh Signe anos bon, 0. s. Aray

Attention Attract

iss
Mam. y

irregular mass - looked as if plame had
— a white snoke colum

30,000 ft

30,000 ft

approximately 3 mimtes - (Smoke trail)

. PUMOE tee nie see, uemenltae cette twat
Thr we resendl ing a corkscrew

ct\s/3

Se

tye) Bitver 120 or 300* according to origin
Object appeared Like burst of flak
none - vicinity was @ cloudless sky

ret white exhemst trail extending some 1 to 10
m.i68
SovyA orance: Wweil evaperated after three minutes like smoke,
poet tering thinly throughout the ataosphere.
ot Nac of Si 4000 feet scattered, visibility
50 miles. High overcast
had the sppearence of flek burst sitting still
& curved trail of corkscrew appe«rance
have the appearance of a va.or trail.

Incident: 206

The rey sighted Uy the two fighter pilots hod the appearance

of a flak barst sitting still in the atzo re and w= connected
‘o a curved trail of corkscrew appearance (See drawing attacne:)
The trail wes from 1 to 10 miles in length, and did not have the
sppearence of a vapor trail but rather that of « rocket or jet
exheust. Altitude wis judged to be 30,000 ft. The mace and trail
disappeared within spproximstely three minutes. Phe ma:s avpcured
waite in color like an exhaust trail whieh bed a sudden burst
origin and then tape-ed off to nothing. Both parties remarked tnat
it appesred as if an aircraft had ex loded and left a woite smoke
Colum. The vapor substance dissipated in approximstely in 3 minutes
scattering thinly like smoke through the atrosphere. It is firaly
believed by both witmesses that the object was not e cloud because
of its shape and becouse the oky in the vicinity wa: cloudless.

Evaluation:  (C-3

Incident: 209

Unitentified airor £¢-3 ry LOW 1) Noy 1348
Post #1 at 37° 57° B= 125° 31 in Son

at an cltitui« of DO he

obeerv«tion vost #2 37°

anda 5, 77? 56" i - i25*
Subject oireraft cirelec
Aircr ft ws tvin engine
hsve b #5 viet,

ss ¥
a Ves .
.

Incident 212

Woile Mr. George li. Hoffman and Roy B, Stst-er were 2 pronching the
city limite of Dayton, Ohio, vin siebenthaler ave., near Stillwater
Bridge, the evening of 3 Dec 48 (Approximately 1713 hours), Mr.

‘offren observed an unumal plese of light like that of a rocket.

The light appeared im the Northwe:t section of the eky. ‘le estimated
this jalse to be visible for about 1/2 second, After observing it for
this ~eriod it flashed off, he save period of time @lapced and it
res.peared seeming!y in an ascenmdont position (could huve been tr: veling
in an easterly direction), 1t again remained visible for about 1/2
wnen it again flawhed off. It ws not seen again. Mr. Hoffman t ugot
that Mr Stateer saw one of the pulses of light. The ignt snpecre
irregular in contour end seemed about an inci in Lengt: frog tue obserwer's
Viewpoint, Mr. ‘ioffmanm eet: mated it io be some 10 m.lea distant and
stated that it was some ‘5° above the borizon, He thought the a! titude
could heave been anywhere from 10,000 to 2U,U.0 feet. The color appe.r
white «wit ellowish tinge and wa lid. There wes no evidence of
exhwust. The lignt remained constant during the LJ. secomis obeerved,
The pert of the sky in witch tle light © e observed annesre? clear.
There wes no cloud interference, Owever, ¢ é } roofs
olmg the horizon, Phere was some wind. Wo vl: BY red to he in
air at the time,

- wu

Observer states thet we is mil tly color-biind. Estimates ii udgment

of speed of soving objects a> mot too accurate. lie believes be can dis

tinguiah sive and shane at a distance fairly well, Obeervor ts che red
for “Secret”

OE i ey TI CE HN tt tty. taal

e of

Otservation: 3 Dee-1715
Beednore Road, near Wagner Ford Road - Dayton, Ohio, outskirts
s Position: fron car while driving west on Harshmenville Road

Co , uir stro] wer, etc.) (Heeduore Rd)

re 6s Me st ayes
Rigar iller, Lt U. S. Mavy, Bx 25153
Hq AMC
it, U. 3. Bavy
bright strip of yellow-orange flame directly shead
1

u/s
yellow-orange {1 ane
itle)  ¥/8

Like that made by ram jet or rocket

in excess of 10,000 feet

r: 10 niles
+; MA@ Appesred to climb at a fairly igh rate
.
n/s - Object seem intermittently over a period of time
observed a definite pattern of notion - both ‘orirontal & vertical

Geject was possibly an exhauct flame
Color: yel flame
overhead presumably in clouds

10,000 feet.

mas

Culir ratics i

a ui 2 i -

INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEST
Incident No. 15

Date and Time of Observation: 3 Dec 1948 2015
Where Signted: Fairfield-Suisun AF Base, Calif <- north of field

Observer's Position: control tower (thru &power binoculars)
(3, e., ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer: Control Tower personnel
ccupation and/or hobbies+ control tower personnel
Attention Attracted by: 3/8

Ly

1 to 2 feet in diameter
vright light
if Pocwible) 2& Circular
ie & remp flood light
When first sighted: 1 to 2,000 ft - climbed to
20,000 feet
Mject from Cheerv. rt n/S
OO to 500 MPH
n/S
Tactics: Began repid climb but erretic - like change to psce
Sound -ade by Objcet(s): no sound heard
Dircetion of Flight of Cbject(e) wikia. climbed toward southeast
Agpercnt Constructi n¥ similar to a rem floodlight
Effect on Clouds: n/S
Exhaust Treil ‘Color of): none
Manner of Disappccrence: B/S
Weather Conditions at Tine of sighting: 15 miles visibility, wind
weet at 5 mph
Peculinrities Yotod: Intensity of the light

Summory of Incident:

(See attached page)

wer versonnel on duty et Fairfield Suisun «AFB, Fairfic
gnted object at 1,000 to 2,000 feet north of field in a §
hending southe:et over field, Started to climb at sbout '00 to *00 MPi
to 20,000 feet, Climb seemed erratic like change to pace, Tower pers

put power binocujars on object. All that could be seen was a circular
light one to 2 feet in diameter. Light had intensity of a Ramp floodlight
bright thet it blanked out my silhouette (if eny) when sighted
Weather balloon releared “5 to 25 mimtes previous to s
minutes efter relessed. Personnel inside tower could
No exhaust trail,

INCIDENT SUMMARY SHELT
Incident No. 226
Date and Time of Observation: g Dececbder 194s 18:46

Where Sighted? Qnamte AF Base, Illinois - 40*-18' orth 8° 7-1/2' Bast

Observer's Position: while fac rtheast
(4, e., ground, air, ntrol tower, yr

Name and Address of Observer: Sgt Jemes B, Doty, Set Bugene B. Montag
es LR Yetults: a Hoy Observers, 16th wes Sq

Attention Attracted bys glint of light

Number of Odject(2) Seen: 1

z thidk(?)
Size of Object(s)? 15 feet long x 6 ft wide - size jet fighter type plene

Color of Object(s): woite
Shape (Sketch if Poesible) Roun

Nature of Luminosity!
(dirceted dDeam of light?

Altitude of Objects Over 15,000 ft
(estimated)

Estimated Distance of Ybject from Coscrvcr: u/s

Estimated Specd of Object: over 350 MPH

Time in Sight: 3 seconds

Tactics: Seemed to de in upward path horisontal from 15° above

and bade by Ceeettelt “Me's

Sound ade by Odject(s): Mo sound

Direction of Flight of Cbject(s)  Sertheast to South Souths

Apperent Construction: w/$

Effect on Clouds; Bo clouds

Exhaust Trail ‘Color of): Statement of James EB. mor mentions that the

object was lesving a

Manner of Disappearance: flew out of sight

Weather Conditions at Time of Sighting: high scattered clouds
visibility: 10 miles

Peculicrities Noted: (

Sumery’ of Ineident: (ever)
(See attached page)

Inci wnt: 2)

On 8 Dec 1948 at approximately 1846 hours Sergeant James ©. Joty
oticed what appearcu to & eller ny rocket or meteor, end

-
called the object to the attention of his companion, Sergeent Ay~ene
+. Montag.

Sergeont Ooty stated that tue obJ id not appear to ce Ax
because it was three or four tines 4s large 48 « etar ani scemd
closer than a star would be. It was sending from the northe.st toware
‘ce south southwest ami wes wving upwards at about & 15 or © “egree
angle, Ac it .oved it seomed to get larger. The object left = trail.
In atout tro or three ceconie it dismppesred, Phe object we rourc,
weite.and ove: very fuut.

Sergeant 8, Montag's statement doe: not <ifier as
or angle of ascent, Stutes that the object traversed about ° to 3/1
of tae sky while uncer obrervation and did mot appear to him to

be a falling star, Sie reported to the Juty Forecsster at the Base

éexther station, Sergeant Kontzg's statement does not mention seeing
a trail.

to direction or color

—

wate and Tine of Otservation: 9 Dee te at 15:20 (Zonal by 26 hr clock)
Were Stghted: g 49 a5 miles SB of Pittsburgh on heading of 300°

fat

that. nto ) a tag 2°
is tip witless Air on a hecding of
de G., éround, air, e« mire. tower, etc.)

Gapt Malling called attention of Col Brow to
amg, Moss

Sppesred perfectly round

bs LUPE of Luminosity: Wes observed to shimmer - possibly due to
VaEwCtid beet cf Light?) gergmees speed and to distortion of light wuves

Undetermined - 12 to 16,000 feet

first ’

miles wien sighted.

“<t Unknown, but evidently very fost a: during the
i 7 mimtes of the Sighting it moved from O® shove
“i oleOtl F mimates horizon in a straight line to 10° (time of disappear.
ance
Moved in straight line - horisontal flight
b, Cb jr ets): Gould not be determined
Jeot(s) Qn a course of 270°

Undetermined

Incident: 217

On 9 December while om flight from Washington, D. C. to Patterson
Field, shortly efter leaving Pittsburgh range some & to 12 miles
southeast of Pittsburgh Capt Mulling asked Gol Brow if he were
interested in seeing a flying disc? Ool Brow removed his flight
goggles, took a quick look and said “Looks like a balloon to me"
Capt Mulling didm't agree since the object evinced a very definite
movenent and was proceeding in a southwest direction at a pretty
fair rate of speed. Ol Brown than decided to wateh the object
again. The object appeared perfectly round and of a chalky white
color bat did not shiny. It was whiter than the clouds and
was seen against Pig <ele e of strips of blue sky alternating with
stripes of thin broken stratus, It was much whiter than the clouds,
It appeared to be traveling fairly rapidly through or above the clouds
disappearing Dehind them and then reappearing tut —— pursuing

@ etreight course. When first sighted it appeared at 60° above

horisom ami seemed from the observer's viewpoint to be about the size
of a quarter - thought to be about 4 to 5 miles in front of the 0-5
4 borirontal shimeer or jittery motion was noticable at all times.
The was pura ing a course of 300° and then changed to 270° with
the object eet Se on a course of 290°. The C15 we

at

cruising at 140 6,000 feet. The object avpeared to be 12 to
16,000 feet andi was above clouds. Object last sean at sbout 10°
above the corison and was about the size of a beebee shot.

Under investigation

INCIDENT SUMMARY SHE_T
Incident No. 220
Date and Time of Observation: 29 Mov 1948 2113

Where Sighted: San Francisco, Calif

Observer's Position:
(4, e., ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name gnd Addrese of Observer: Mr Robert Thatcher, 1779 38th Ave.,
Sen Francisco, Calif
Occupation and/or hebbdies: Science Teacher Francisco Jr High School
Attention Attracted by: yellow light flashing acroes the sky
Maumber of Chject(s) Seen: 1
2) B/S
sject(s): yellow
h if Poesible) B/S "flash of light"

Nature of Luminosity: _ B/S

(directed beam of Light?)
Altitude of Objects B/S
estimatcd)

t
(

Betimated Distance of “dject from Cbserv.r: B/S

Estimated Spucd of Object: “too fast for plane”

Time in Sight: 7 seconds

Tactics! lst headed north then turned north-nortiwest

Sound bade by Object(s): 4/S

Dircetion of Flignt of Cbject(s) North Northwest

Apparent Construction: flash of light

Effect on Clouds: 4/S

Exhanst Trail Color of): B/S - just flagh of light was observed
Manncr of Disappcorance: B/S

Weather Conditions at Time of Sighting: u/s

Peculiaritices Noted: Extreme ‘speed - too fast for plane but did not
think it was a comet or shooting star
Summary of Incident:

(See attached page)

Incident: 220

Mr Robert Thatcher, en AF Veteran, now a Science teacher at the
Francisco Jr High School, called Hg 4th AF to revort a yellow

light flash across the sky at approximately 2113 hours the night

of 29 November 1948, Light was headed due North then turned North-
Northwest and disappesred. It lested for sbout 7 seconde and appeered
to be traveling too fast for e plane. However, it did not acce.r to ce
a comet or shooting stur,

INCIDENT SUMMARY SHECT
Incident No. cel
Date and Time of Observation:

Where Sighted: Midland, Michigen

Observer's Position:
4. @., ground, atr, control tower, etc.) Case under investigetion
on

Name end Address of Observer:
Occupation and/or hebbies:
Attention Attracted by?
Number of Object(*) Seen:
Size of Odject(s)3

Color of Obdjeet(s):

Shape (Sketch if Porrible)

Nature of Luminosity!
(dirceted beam of light?)

Altitude of Object?
(estimated)

Estimated Distance of “bject from Coecrv. rt
Estimated Specd of Object!

Time in sight:

Tactics:

Sound ‘wade by Obj. ct(s):

Dircetion of Flignt of Object(s)
Agperent Construction:

Effect on Clouds:

Exhaust Trail Color of):

Manner of Disapp.crence:

Weoth r Conditions at Time of Sighting:
Peoulicritics Noted:

Summary. of Incident:
(See attached pege)

TAT awe os Vv -
NV. OUP '

Kid "Incident No. 5
‘ Otcervation: 23 Mor 1988 at 2220 hours
Porstenfeldrack, Gerneny

from ground

trol tower, etc.)
oe ie
u/s
seen: 1 vossibly 2
u/8
like reddish star
3/8

27,000 ft to 40,000 £

from 200 to 500 MPH
u/s

horizontal flight, climbing and circ] ing

southerly direction turning slightly te
SW and then &

Sky: clear; moon shining; no

cloud layers, visibility 3 alles
with ground fog. Winds aloft: 5 tmot
per hour

Incident: a ¢

At 2220 hours, local time, 23 Bow 46, Capt Slater saw

an object in the air Girectly east of Furstenfeldbruck at

an unknown altitude, It looked like a reddish star and was
moving in a southerly direction across Munich tarning slightly
to the South-West and then South-Mast, Speed could have been
between 2OO and 500 MPH. Actual speed could not be estimated.
Capt Slater called Base Operations from his barracks and they
notified Racecard UF Station who reported nothing on the scope
but st ted they would look, Raceoard Station then called Base
Operations to report an unidentified object 27,000 ft Up some
30 miles south of Munich, Later Racecard Station called

Capt Slater to reoort that the object was climbing and was then
believed to .e at 40,000 ft altitude about 40 wiles south of
Munich and was circling.

There were no F-80's (Jets) flying on this night.

Capt Slater (an F-20 pflet) is considered comletely reliable
and the facts st-ted above were verified by Cept Darwin R. Addis
23rd Fighter Sq (also an P80 pilot) who ws with Copt Slater
at the time of the sighting.

Incident 223

At ig hours, 5 Dee 1948, Capt Goade, flying a 0-7, No. AT 9921, enroute
from Lowry AF Base, Denver, Colorado, to Williems AP Base, Chandler, Arizona,
reported his position to the Control Tower, Kirtland AF Base, as being

a ;Toximately 10 miles east of Albuquerque, Capt Goade stated he had seen
& green flare arise from oa mone to an altitude of a proximately 500 ft
on the east slope o BI teins at about 2127 hours, He was fl) ing
at 18,000 ft. Stated he had jnst .een the same type flere at approximately
215 hours just west of Las Vegas, New Kexico, at ep roxims‘el_ 2105 nours,

a

i ad
Other sightings of this fl-ure ere as fc} lows?
bee l

7t30 p. a. Mary & Jobn Saith (Lae ¥ » B. &M.)
9:05 P. mM, (Capt Gnaie) west of Las Vegas, ¥, M,
9:15 p. a. Mr & Mrs Lewie Martiner (Las Vegas, 3. X.)
9115 - 9:30 p.m. Mr Roger Lewis (Las Vegas, BH. M.)
9:15 p. mee Rew & Mra S, ¥, W@eilese (Near lucy, BK. X.)
27 p. a Capt Goude & Major Carter (Ineidents 223 & 22%3a)
near Alimouercque, 3, “4.
. B Mr Zrneet Yun Lioyd, Pilot and Co-Pilot Jane
Smith (Las Vegas, §. &.)
700 = 10815 p.m. Mre Woodrow House (Bear Las Vogus, N. M.)
$20 jem gt. & Mere Prank Henaley (Near Levy, N. éM.)

es

>. B. My Prenk Green (Tempcrary Senta Fe %’ St: tion ON VA, ¥.M.)

George (¥m.?) Hirt (Serr Las Vers, }

BOTe: = Inqiry of local airfields both commercial ani governmental
unearthed ao applicable exzplamation of thir phenomena, Holloman
AY Base performs no research work at night ani on Sundays which
involves the use of any lignting device or fl.res such ac decerided.

*

re i i te ee Re
ee eee

Date and Tine of Otservation: 5 December 194g 2135 houre

Where Sighted: weet of Les Vegas, §. ™.
Observer's Poei+io Air, pilet of « Commereial plape while emroute from
Tucumcari

ks tea ground, ‘tdr, control tower, etc.) o B. M. to Lee ¥ Vegas
to Santa Pe, to Albuquerque, H.M,
Jdress of Observer: os va Plight #63

Ceupation and/or hobbies: PAlet

Atte At treet
bateoactel to jerk ° pine

Number of Gb ject ( ) seen:

v

Size of Ob}

Color of Objcet(s): ° erem (first rot) bright woite
(interview wi
Suave (Sketeh if Posvible) B/S = sinfle to Very Pistol flare

o of tatin, sity lilt shooting star

m0 fect altitude {ist rot)
slight above 9,000 rt (interview with EaxP)

Nae coming bates J

Ws
Supeared to be coving straight to the siiip - then
trailed off to the grovmd
| R/s
Dircetion of Flig.t of Chject(c) 35/8
Appervnt Cons! ruction: flarelive
Effect on Clouds:
Sxhaust Treil ‘Coler of): pale green trail = (ant mentioned in 24 rpt)
~“Rncr of Discpp. rrance: B/s
Wecthor Conditions at Tine Of sighting: 3/8

Peculisritics Notod: "90 meer the for @ shooting ster & too fer
Cculisritics Neto a¥ oom ing

Summary of Incident: Cover
(See atteched p. cee)

Incident: 223a

At hours 5 December 1946, tein VAR LLOYD, neer

Plight #63, reoorted by te saga Kirtland af sony et gal

stating that he had seen a green light Jast wect of Las Vegus at

p seth chap Gop noure. Pilot at first believed the light ws a
cates tuto thought it was too near the ground.

appeared to be coming straight toward the plane and be attempted to

swerve to avoid the light; however, it then trailed off to the ground.

Say en Oe Genem SS hat pake Gevee frail, like that on a

See Report Bo, 223 for surrounding data.

Later Gapt VAN LLOYD and his co--ilot Jumes L. Smith, were intorviewed
by S/A WELYIN =, NEEP, at Pioneer Airline Operstiona, Eirtlend AP Base,
Kirt Fld, B. M, VAN LLOYD end SH ITH Avi-ed that at 2155 hours

5 Dec 48 as tosy were approaching Ls Vogac, NH. M. in a 7 type
plane at an altitude of 9,000 ft (oom oon he ding of 772°), they
Obverved directly ahead and slightly above their altitude - ic the vicinity
of Montezuma Mission a phenomens which first appe.red as a brigut write
flash ~ then am object came into view wich wac described as being a
weitish oramge color. It firet «wpe re to be coving Jirectiy toward
toeir plane tnen arched downward and (disappeared from sight. Was only
in sight for a few seconis and m estimate coult be mde of eivxe or
dictance,

MOTE: It is to be noted that there is a discrepancy in the color (: 1-0
in the altitude ~ in the second re ort he states the object
wee a little higher tham hie rlare - which was flying at »,(00 ft)
First report we mde to Kir‘land 4F Base Control Towr
& secona report wee otteine  b, 5/A )SLYIN 5. UF .n 5 personal
interview.

-_—— ~~

a ee

' © Aan
Ud. MiSs QUMKRANT Of1n. 7

Late and Time of Observation: 8 December 194g 1833
Where Sighted: 20 miles east of Las Vegas, 5. XM.

Observer's Pogition: Plane, ei tt cn earth 35° 31' B- 10u® 5!

(i, e., ground, air, control to
Jame und Adress of Cbserver: S/A STAHL end NEP
d/or hobbies:  Spesial Agents and rated pilots
brillient grees light
1

e)$ eee any, Lacaer Shen that of a norma) flere,
meteor ting ster
B/S + similar to flare
Light more intemse than a normal flare

13.500 above sea level, 7,000 ft above earth
spproximately 2,000 ft higher than plane)

Tactics: observed a flat trajectory - almost parallel to the earth,
trajectory droppéd off rapidly amd a trail of glowing fraguents were observed t
Sound code by Chject(s): B/S fall

Dircetion of Fligst of Cbject(s) 60° BBB to 2ko® wow

Apparent Consiruction: moteor-like or flare-like

Effect on Clouds: B/S

Exhuust Treil Color of): had trail of paving fragments reidich orange

ia color whl towerd the ground
“Mk.r of Disspp rrance: @isintegrated

Moat Conditions at RY re ate Sig : GAY - minim of 75 niles
wind 30 MPH ee —way to senith aad south or right of cou

Sasa PERC O ET” |
Summary of Incident: (over)
(See ettcched p pege)

Incident: 22%

At 1745 on 8 Dec 48, Spec Agents SPAHL & NEYP, both rated pilots, took
off from Kirtland AP Base in a T-7 type aircraft. At 18:3 while

flying at an indicated altitude of 11,500 feet, mean sea level,
approximately 5,000 feet above terrain, a strange phenomenon was observed.
Beact position of the aircraft at time of observation wes 35° 31' &

104° 51' W, approximately 20 miles east of Las Vegas, b. K., ratio sonde
station. Aircreft wus on a compass course of a indicated air-speed
was 160 MPH and qeount speed approx 190 mph. 3/A STASL was pilot and
seoted om the left side of cockpit, 3/A REEF first observed the object
an? w split sec nd later S/A STAFL saw it. It was 2,000 ft bigher than
tue plane or 13,500 ft above meen sea level and ws approach

the plane at a ranid rate of speed from approximately 30° to the left

of course, from 60° ENE, to 240° WoW, The object was similar in appearance
to @ burning green flare of“towon use in the Air Forces. dovever, the
\ight wae much more intense and the object appesred considerably larger
than a normal flare. Mo estimate could be maie of the distance or sire of
the object since no other object was visible won which to bose a comparieon.
It was definitely larg r than a shooting star, meteor or flure. The
trajectory of the object when first signted wis almost flat and parallel
to the earth, The l-eted approximately 2 seconds at the end
of which time the object seemed to burn cut. The trajectory them dropped
off ranidly and a trail of glowing fragments reddish orange in color

ws Observed falling toward the ground. There fragments were visible for
lese than a second Defore disappearing. ‘The phenomenon wes of such in-
tensity as to be visible from the very moment it ignited and was observed
@ split second later. It w.s not possible for the phenomenon to have been
visible for longer than « split’ second before obdserwation. (See “e*
umier"Significent Differences Between the Fireballs Observed in tne
Interval Dec 5-13 & Typical Meteors” = Incident 227) ,

a

Se ~

latter . ef 47 snciaent “Ue _ 225
Date and Time of Otservatisn: WS - 2130 hours & Bow 4g
All sightings eccurred @pprez 2200 hou
Wsere Sighted: 10 miles east of Yeugha, N. M, - Bigmmy 60 om 3 or Sth Nov ls

Observer's Position: ground - wille driving
© eee eround, air, control tower, etc.)

lrese of Coserve Tr: Gol ¥. P. Hayes, Iaf., Rescative,

Bow Mexico Military District

Aa sbdove

B/S

bn ae be ce to bright fiery red color
ivle) Yell

"like miniature eun*®

* Ther t?)

From 500 ft whem firs observed to 100-200 rt

from ground where it burst in a epray of reddish color
bJect: Prom ry rt NO to 6 yde on one sighting
and about 400 yis at another

Slow descent

Time in Sight: B/S. Had time to get out of car end witch object which
appe red to explode §0 to 60 yis im fromt of him at an altitude of 200 ft.
Tactics: slow vertiesl descent

0: Co j cts):

e

. +
+ ice

Rone ~ although he was vi
4 outside of car.

7
aes

thin 40 to 6 yis of obj.
See "Detaile" at Albuquerque, N.é,
Vertical descent

z tlig st of oye

ab al

tion: firebdall

B/S ~ weather cle

ay ph hee ~ fragments acon & fiery red color
whieh descendad earth like numerous eps tat extingni shed
Wertar Conditions at Tive of oizht ing: Glear before reaching
Peculicritics Vot.d: Metiesd pm fe around 2200 hours -
in Ye vi ty of Veugtm - Highway 60
Sammary of Incident: (ower
\

(See ottroied pegs)

Incident: 225

Colomel Hayes first observed an umsual aeria) phenomena during the
latter part of 1947, This occurred in the vicinity of Veugnn, B, M,
pheno @Ma appe.red spproximetely 400-500 ft above the
when first obserwed and was descending slowly
manner toward the earth. It appe red larger than a basketball,
bright white in color like s miniature cum, At a point anproximately
200 feet above the surface of the exrth, ths object appeared to explode
although no noise was syparent. By this time the Colomel had stopped
hie automobile and had gotten cut to witch the object. The explosion
or disintegration appeared to be taking place some 4 to yards
Gistant and still no noise was noticed. At this time the fragments
assumed a fiery red color and descended toward earth like muwerous
sparks being extinguished before touching the ground. At the time
Col Hayes was on ighwey 60, near a ratlroad @nd eeparated from the
Vicinity wnere the fragments were landing by a fence, He did not cross
the fence or investigate further,

On 3 or & Mov lis at “pproximitely 2130 hours he observed » ball of
light, reddish white in color, 1 foot in diameter, falling vertically,
The ball burst 100-205) feet from the ground in » spray of reddish color
which extinguishe? before r: Cuing the groumd - this occurred about 4CO
Fords sorth of tee coud en wich he we: “cfivige ~ 16 miles e -t of
Veunghn, B. ¥. e Sighway 60.

On 23 Hov 1948 at Spproximately 2130 hours, Col Hayes wos driving west
on Highwey 66 ~ approximately 10 mile> weet of Yengrm, N. Mh. He again
Odverved o bull of light deccen ‘né Yo rtically, It wurst 10.200 feet
fros the groumd - Conditions and Appesrance were the same on 3 and
*tre Nov,

Col Saye s
On the lest 2 sightings fraw no airerasrt end herd no sound which is
Unterutandable since he was traveling in « cloced ant mobile, Weather
conditions were clear,

EVALUATION B.2,

rvation: § Deeember 1948 epprox 2255 im the evening
Woere Signted:  Sqmdia Base, Albuguerque, 3. M,

ground ~ while driving weet on ")" S$.

control tower, etc.)

Mr Joe Toulouse, Security Section, Sendia Base,
Albuquerque, FB. M,
B/S = see above

Sew light om windehielé
seen:
Approximately 1/3 the diemeter or the moon
greenish
itle) B/S ~ like flere
Like flare

< to 3 secomie
Slight are falling from east to west
IE

east to west

Inc dent:

At approximately 2255 the evening of 6 December 1948, Mr Jose
Touloose, A. B.S, Security, Samiia Base, observed a definite
grecnish flare in the sky alsost dire ctly overhe..d of Sandio Base
At the time hoe wos driving weet an "D" Street and he

J i arrived at a
stop sign at Main Street. The flare apoe-red in the upper right

hand corner of the windshiclda slightly to the northwest,

It was ap roximately 1/3 the diameter of the moon ani « light ere

ensue: falling from east to weet. The flaming tail anpe red during
the arc. The entire phenomenon lasted nossibly two to three seconds
fter w ich it vanishe

CTBT =F ny oie i
WCILENT WP AR Ohm d

Incident No. Redd

Date and Time of Observation: ‘2 Bee 1948 py ot) ag lea. Me
& 900 2m. We.
Where Sighted: Wet Bermal, Sew Mexiao

Odserver' a Position: ground ~ right front seat of car
(i. e., ground, uir, control tower, etc.

Name and A Oe Pas, Director, Institute of Metecritics,
Occupation and/or hotties:  Astromomer

Attention Attracted by: ‘Sndirect vielos

Number of Object(+) Seen: 1

Sire of Object(s): Apperemt engular diameter 5'

Color of Chject(s}: very bright green

Snape (Skctch if Poewible) Wall

Nature of Luminosity:

(Jirceted beam of Mgnt?)

Altitude of Cbicct: S to 10 miles altitude
(estimated)

Eetimated Distance of “bject from Coecrvirt g/g
Estimated Snced of Object: Mither € to 12 afles or 3 to 6 miles per second

Gepending om the duration estimate used

Tactics: Oveerwed almost emact horizontal flight until a 1/10th second before
diseppesrancs when @ slight but definite eurvature downerd ws cotiod.

Sound Made by Cdject(a): Rome noticed
Direction of Flight of Cbject(e) @oet te west - very low om the hérigoa
Apparent Construction:  “Sisebell®
Effect on Clouds: 8/S
Exheust Trail ‘Color of): “Ge trai mettiesd
Ne A Reploded inte four exaller bright green fragnents
oer Conditions at Time of Sighting: Glear

Pooulicritics Bo tod: a Soe
Sumsary of Incident:

(See attached pege)

ene aire ae

-@ *

Incident: 227

Dr La Paz's attention was direction to an area about 15* weet of E-Cygni
youn by indirect vision he become aware of a very bright green ball
(apnarent angular diaseter 5') to the right of the ares in hia center
field of view which was moving from east to west very low on the horizon.
Shouting “Look” to his companions GO. L, Phillips, AP<CAP Liaien Officer,
Kirtland Fid., Lt Allem Clerk, Intel cer, B. Mex. Wing CAP, and
Inspectors Jeffers and ARC Security Service (Los Alamos, B. ¥.)
who then timed duration of 1 wnieb ranged from 2.1 seconis to 2.3 sec.
The path of the green ball was aluost exactly horizontal (altitude estimated
as only 3 or || degrees) until just a tent of a second or so before it
disappe.red. During the last one or two tenths of « vecond of it» viei-
bility a slight but definite curvature dowmerd developed in its peth.
From the very begimming the ball was very bright. Immediate comparison
with Serius (at a mach greater altitude than the green fireball) indicates
that during all but the last ome or two temths of a second of the firebdali's
wisibility it was at leact of apparent angnitude -/ (mimas four). Just as
curvature in ite path developed, tne magnituie of the fireball rose
clightly and it broke up into tHree or four fmaller but stil bright green
fragments wich di ered almost instantly. Although Lt Clark stopped
the car the moment fireball disappeured amd the occupants then stood
outside the oar and listened for meteoritic detonations or rumblings,
nothing was beard. Tyo uight guarde at Los Alamos had also witnessed
the phenomena simultaneously. The green fireball of December 12th,
appeared very near a point with the coordinates
; ongitade 16° 4o' ama ai ed necr a point with
the coordinates latitude 35° ''5', longitude 5', traversing a near
or exactly horizontal path with a length of wry nearly twenty-five (25
miles et an altitude son the eurface of the exrth of approximately €
om the estimate of angular altituie employed in the
ty with wempest to the earth works out at between
& to 12 miles @ second - depemdim on the duration estimate used.
It should be observed that the above results are obtained under the
assumption that the pointe of appe:rance and diseppecrence of the firebell
were seen simultaneously by both the Bernal and los Alamos groups, In
Case this eesmp>tion is not fulfilled, the real path could very easily be
mo more than 10 to 12 miles long, the velocity with respect to the earth
them working out at between 3 and 6 miles a second. While there is tims
considerable uncertainty begaues of the lack of confirming azimmth observa-
tious from a third station, the concordance in the five (5) different
estimates of er elevation make it most unlikely that tne linear
height of the f bell was mach less than § miles and much more tosn 10
miles. It is interesting te observe that the backward extension of the
eS-aile path first given passes almost centrally across the Los Alasos
reservation.

During the entire night of the 12th, meteors of all magnitudes fron the
first ine ead can nt of varioms eolore (with white and yellow pre-
dominat and were occasionally seen emenating -
toa the Ceniats 3 was well adeve the horizon even
at the time of the Starvation Peak incident. (near Bernal, B. ¥.) Gon
sequently, the apparent paths of the meteors from the radiemt appeared as

*

Iacident! 227

luminous arcs of great circles diverging from the radiant point and passing
dowmwerd to intersect the horison under angles always large and for the
most part app: 90° in value. In sharpest contract, the path of the
bright green fire seen from newr Sturvation Peak was wery nearly, if
not exactly, parallel to the horizon. his green fireball certainly did not
emanate from the Geminid radiant.

dubject to discowery that a new (nom-Geninid) meteoric radiant emitting
numerous vory bright fireballs of » vivid green color (deeper and richer

than the green of the beacom at tne New Municipal Airport south of Santa

Fe, Bcew Mexico) has suddenly beoome octive during the firs half of December,

I om no. convinced the various “green Flare” incidents reported to the O, S. 1.
are got meteoric in mature. ‘See Incidents: 225, 226, 223, 223e, 224, 250

ea ifferences Bet weer e Firebdalle Observed in the Inte
i) and Typical hetec

a. The horigontal mature of the paths of most of the Decesiber fireballs
is most unususl, Gennine meteors are rarely observed to move in horizontal
paths.

>. ‘The very low height of the December firedall «i cu*sed in Section
2 above sets it off in sharp contraet from the gemine meteors for which
heights of the order of 40 or more miles ore normally obdcerved. -

ce. The velocity determined for the fireball of Decemb.r 12 is much
lees than the velocities determined from de meteors (and yet is com
V

siderably greater tham the speeds of the Rockets or jet planes or of
conventional flares).

ad. In the case of meteorites that penetrate to as low levele as that
tetermined for the fireball of December 12, the observed luminous phenomena
are always accomanied by very violent noises. No noises whatever heve been
observed in connection with toe various December fireballs so far investigated.

e. Gemine meteors normally show remarkable variations in brightness
beginning as fine thin hair lines, wich are scareely visible to the observer
and then brightening up to flash out near the end of their paths. Im the
case of the December fireballs, most of the observers have renorted that '
the green balls appecred almost invtantly at their full brightness.

f. Im the case of genuine meteors the paths ave directed toward all
points of the compass with equal frequency. On the contrary in the case
of the green fireballs, clots of admicsible approach sectors show that there
ie a very pronounced tendenay for the paths to come in from the north half
of the sky.

g- ‘Tre three groups of anomaloue greenish luminous phenomena show
a carious association with well k@ow: meteor showers, although none

Incident: 227

of these meteor showers norvally produce extremly bright green fireb-lls

such as thooe recently obeerved. For example, the observation mentioned by

Mr Monnig (Inciient 231) appe-red mear the maximum of the Quadrantid showr

of early January, Mr McOullough's observation of August wos near the tim

of the Persid shower (Incident 230) and the December observations (223, 223a

224, 226, 227, MD fell in the interval covered by the Geminid shower.

This relationship t indicate an attempt to render the green fireballs less
by cams them to appear only when there is considerable meteoric

activity.

he As noted in an eorlier commnic:tiom the remarlably vivid green
color resorted for west of the Decerber fireballs is rarely observed in the
case of gemine meteors, By leboratory test thie pemuliar color seems (to be
identical with tat given off by copper ealte in the blowpipé flame. If this
identification is correct, the avelengti of the radiation from the green
fireballs io near pe 5218 A.

i. The duration estimates of be'veen 2 and 3 anconis reported for the
green firebdalle are coniderebly longer then those 40.4 - 0.5 seconds) for
the ordinary vieual meteors, but shorter than the dmeation estimates invar-
fably reported in the case of a gemine meteorite frll (5 té 30 seconin or
even longer).

j. Home of the green fireballs seem to have a train of sparks or a
dust cloud following. This contrarts sharply with the behavior noted in
case of meteoric firebalie - particularly those thst penetrate to the very
low levels where the green fireball of December 12 wis observed.

WOTS: Inquiry at Holloman AF Base, Alamagordo, N. K., revealed tnat
research work et night and om Supdays does not involve the use of
any lighting device or flares such ac described in the various
reports submitted.

LL TE TT Ta a gO RBS aR em

a ea teean ttt

chee aban tan Said econ
INCISENT SUMMARY SHETT

Date and Time of Observation:

Where Sighted: New Brighton, Pa.

Observer's Position: ,
(4, e,, ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer:
Occupation and/or hebbies:
Attention Attracted by:

a

Number of Object(s) Seen:

«stime
Estimated Distane
Estims ted

Time in sight:

Tactics!

Sound ‘ade by Cbject(s):

Direction of Flignt of Cbject(e)

Agpercnt Construction:

Effect on Cloude:

Exhmet Trail ‘Color of):

Sanncr of Disapp. crance:

Weothcr Conditions at Time of Sighting:
Peculicrities Noted:

Sammary of Incident:
(See attached pege)

Case under investigst ion

Incident !
Date and Tine of Otservation: & Ang 1948 - Between 2 & 3 A. NM.

Were Sighted: Worth Power, Oregon - 2-1/2 miles north of

roete Paattin
. » «USA e 2?
‘

eround, air, control tower, etc.,

J. B. McCullough, P. 0, Box 2776, Boise, Idano

cf Observer:

High tensity of green possibly on light-green side
1.) B/S= "fireball"

ty like meteor = had definite fluorescent glow
of ligt?) circumventing it

5,500 ft elevation above sea level

u/s

Performed a 5-1/2 mile trajectory and arched earthward in
a natural down Ws Arc equal to approximately go*
1 ): H/S

‘ ‘
Chi ctle
Oj ctl s/s

northwest to southeast

Viest of Cojectle)
"fireball"

3/8

xrenst Trsil Color of}: Did not have much of a meteor type tail -
but did have a definite fluorescent glow circumventing it.
mmr of Discpp.orsnees "after ere | the 'nth' degree of the arc, it
extinguished se

Weether Conditions :
Peeuli:ritice Voted:
Summory of Incident? (over)

. y
(See atthchcd page)

Incident: 230

“

“On August 4th, while traveling south on U. S, Highway No. 70,
approximately two and one-half miles north of Borth Powder, Oregon,
~ somewhere Detween 2 & 3 A. M. ~- I was amazed to see in the
heavens directly squth of me, a fireball. This object apperred to
come out of nowheré, but when first observed, was traveling in a
horizontal line on an angle presumed to be northwest to southeast
at an elevation above sea level of 5500' (absolute direction and
elevation argumentative), It appeared to me - for a descriptive
purpose - as having been ejected from a huge Roman canffe, and this
candle, by whatever power held, was on a horizontal plane with the
earth, As the object in its trajectory, aporoximately five ani one-
half miles, beceme spent, it arched earthly in a natural down gerade.
As I recall it, this arc was equal to approximately 90 degrees,
Immediately after reaching this 'nth' degree of the arc, it ex
tinguished iteelf, I do not recall that there was mich of a meteor
type tail, but the object did have @ definite fluorescent glow
circumventing itself. As to the color, I can best describe it by
referring your observation after dark to a high tensity neon sign
of green - perhaps on the light green side.*

Otservation: 1 Jem lg 1225 A, M. & 1230 ALM,
Abilene, Texas

ground

‘
tower, etc.)

Mr A. Schroeder, 1109 Highland Ave
Abilene, Texas

u/s

Attention Attracted by: low om the horisom - due west of Abilene, Texas
fairecticn of White Senie Proving Ground e}

fumber of Chject(:) Seen: l

Bright blue green

. ‘

ible) IUdke bell with a fan-shaped glow surrounding

B/S = observed om the horizon

B/S ~ could not de estimied
Ho apparent speed

2 seconda
~ remained stationary
Ho sound

Mo flight perceived

Exhaust Trail Color of): Fam-ehaped glow seemed to surrounded object
Mamncir of Disappcrrance: a/s

Wocth r Conditione at Time of Sighting: Clear sky

Poculicriti Noted: See

Indi dent: <5!

Information regarding this sighting taken from a letter of Oscar
Nomnig addreseed to Mr A, Schroeder of ADilene, Texas, in regard
to Mr Schroeder's query regarding a phenomena he wftne.-ed the
night of 1 Jan 48 at approximately 1125 A. M. and agnin at 1:30
A. &.

Odject wis described as a fem-shaped glow woich originated from a
large bell om the horizon ani wich extenied to the meridian due
west of Abilene, “exas, in « perfectly clear sky, Phenomena «s
of © secomis duration, Five mimtes later it ws seen agein for
the same length of time. Bo sound was heard.

Mr Monnig thought the phenomena could possibly be attributed to:

(1) Disturbance of en electric:1 zy such as transforners
blowifg out, or

(2) Experiments at White Seni« Proving Groun:s which are due
weet of Abithe,

MOTS: Inquiry at Holloman Ai Base, Alamagordo, N. ¥.,
revealed that research work at night and on
sincays does not involve the use of any li hting
‘evice or flares such as described in the va: ious
reports submitted. See Incidents

e

INCIDENT SUwAR

Date and Time of Otservation: 1 Jan 1940

Where Sighted: 2 miles east of Jackson, Missicei pi

Ot serve r!

8 Position: from air at an altitude of about 1,980 ft
(i, @., ground, air, control t wer, etc,)

Name und Address of Observer: Mr & Mrs Tom Rush, 402 Mitchell Ave.,
Jackson, Mississippi
Occupation and/or hetbics: Pilot employed by Dixie Air Service at Jackson,
Mississippi,. AAF pilot
ttention Attracted by: sometining fly/itStront of then

Number of Odject(:) Seen: 1
6 ft long, 10 feet wide tapering to 4 ft
Dark blue or black

Shape (Sketch if Pos: ible) cigar-shaned ~ mot unlike sleeve target. (let repert
mentioned short stubby wings)
Nature of Luminosity: R/S

Jircetcd beum of Light?)

\

Altitude of Obfe ct: 1500 to 1600 feet, then a gredual climb

+ * yor “yy r yr:

Zetinated Distanc: of OJect- from Ct vrs Crossed path of plane at
SOO feet; after turn it was as close as 1,200 feet fron them
Sstimeted Ipecd of Object: Aporox 200 MPH when first sighted, then
accelerating to approximately 00 to 500 MPH
- Time in Sight: 10 to 12 meconds
Tactics: Made 50° turn and increased speed ae it headed .£outhwe et
Sound ade by Chject{a): Similar to helicopter (lst renort
rear (24 report)
bject(s) West then southwest

Direction of Flight of |
Agpercnt Construction: Similar to tow target

Sffect on Clouds: u/s

Exhoust Trail ‘Color of): none visible

Monmer of Disappuerance: exatuat climbed towerd Southwest & Gi sappecr ed
Weoth r Conditions at Tine of -ighting: Weather cher to southwest
Peculicrities Noted: As object made turn object appeured to have no wings.
Summary of Incident: (over)

(See attnched page)

¢€

EA CY rate : Via iis ci

<

Incident: 233

|

So ee cee

Mr Tom Rush, a pilot with Dixie Air Service, Jackson, Mississippi,

and nis wife (private pilot), signted an unidentified aerial object

2 miles eat of Jackson, Mississippi, at 1700 C, 1 Jan 49 while coming

in for a landing at the Dixie Airport. Object was first described es
being cigar-shaped with short etubby wings resembling a rocket.

(Second renort states there were no wings) Mr Rush specifically stetes

in @ signed letter “as the object made its turn, it wes then that I noticed
the object didn't have wings.” Object was first thougnt to be a large
tow target about O feet oo and about 10 feet in diameter at one end
and about & ft at the treiling end, ‘The tail even fluttered like a trget
but there was nothing towing it and the object moved at greater speed than
tow tergets, When the object crossed in front of the plane Rush estimated
the speed to be about 200 MPE and atsted that the object. crossed sone SOO
»feet in front of them. After the turn, the object was witnin 1,200 feet
of the plene, Mr Rush attempted to point out the object to the vilot

but the pilot did not understand and apparently @id not see the object,

As the object turned to the southwest it accelerated its speed and flew
out of sight, Object seen for some 10 tele seconds, Color wes dark

Dlue or Dlack. Speed at first sighting - 200 miles per hour, later
thought to have accelerated to between 400 to 600 mph.

Object wae sighted by the above persons who were pescengers in a Stinson
Civilian aircreft. No photographe were taken since & camera wes not ava.ia-~
ble. The Stinson was flying at about 1,800 feet. Investigation of flight
schedules of odjacent airfields could throw no light on the incitent.

STAT Ama
AERIAL OBJECT o

Incident No.
Date of Observation

Date of Interview
Exact time of observation (local)

Place of Observation

(Map Coordinates)

of observer

attracte

Me V

ation or grouping:

object, i. €., sun, moon, thumb or

compare with known object):

0°

at

at horizon, 90° overhead):

Direction from observer (Angle clockwise from North):

Distance from erver (Distance to town, bldg, etc., over which
object appeared to be):

Time in sigh

Speed (time to cover given angular

Sound and odor:

Page 2 (LOLiti ied Incident No.
Guide to Investigation

Pe
ILOFr

incandescence, other ~ degree of

Maneuvers

TR

Effect on

Weather

vame and ac

Occupation and

Incident No.

He , :
Guide to Investigation

_ +

and consistent with
4 at reguler rate:

ddenly or gradually?

If airbourne, whcn object was sightcd

Vo

any radar indications « ‘tra noise on radio circuits:

Winds aloft report:

chedules of commercial, private and military aircraft

ity at the time:
adian activity if close to

bord

rele: testing devices in vicinity sent aloft Ordnance
or anu

Possible
ney Army, Weather Units, Rescarch Organizations or any

3 NE Vy, 81°F

object ted cartt ta: joles within and without de
ression > objer ended fc purposes of making comparison

soils.

ere available; if not

a ing

where
i tS

+ sy 1 7 2 ~ ~ “
vu : Asal Jj! W >t veCu

harn: rate)
nappen a)

n (if