Authority

NND 917033

As this ob descended through a low enough level to permit observation
of its la silhouette, it presented a distinct ovular outline, with two (2)
projections on the upper surface which might have been thich fins or nobs. These

When the object dropped to a level such that comes into line of vision
of the mountain tops, it was lost to the vision of the observer.

It is estimated that the object was in line of vision about seconds.

Of the five (5) people sitting in the observation truck, four observed
this object and mde remarks about it. These people +

(Other names not given)

The following is my own personal opinions about this object:
1. I think it ws a manpuade object, as evidenced distaintly by the
and functional appearance.

2. Xitp misc wee ust dor Seen OS dust With o pesncinite cantens
3. The path followed by this object appeared as though it might have

Seeing this was not a hallucination or other fancies of a senses

f

¥

-
~~ $
yu

™ . ‘ _ vs Hy

.
-
+ x

OE EE MB
. ene Ba a”. ones “ nd ye

Witness observed very bright light in the sky southwest of Clinton Coun

AF Base which appeared to be the complete wing of an aircreft on fire. He

When viewed thru field glasses from the Control Tower the object would gain

and lose altitude very rapidly witkemtxs with barely any discernible

forward or backwerd motion, At times it changed colors (from red to green, etc)
At one time it disappeared behind the overcast but its light penetrated thru
the overcast. At approximately 19:45 o'clock it began to move away from the

field on a heading of 210° and di ered ov
19:55, (1st acct) Sappe er the horizon at approximately

NOTE: See also 48, ‘Sa, Med, 4sa & 33, 33a, 33d, 33c, 334,
ea 33+ 338» 3350, 335, 33d, 330, 33f and

At the time of the sighting the weather was clear over the Base, with a
SouthOWest wind which was moderate. There was an overcast in the SE which
appeared to be a layer approximately 1000 feet thick, The height of this
overcast was approximately 5,000 ft. Object seemed to be about 5 miles

from the field at an altitude of from 15,000 to 20,000 ft. The object

which appeared stationary at first resembled the complete wing of an airplane
on fire. No beam of light was projected. After observing it with the

naked eye for some five mimtes, witness went to control tower and looked thru
field glasses and then decided that it was not a comet or a fallgag star

to his knowledge of astronomy. With the aid of the glesses the object
appeared to go from an altitude of15,000 to 10,000 feet without any noticable
forward or backward motion, and then back up to its original altitude very
rapidly. This occurred some 3 or 4 times. When it moved a red light would
dominate end change to a green light and then back to its original color.

It then started to reced on a heading of 210° going behind the overcast.
However, the light was discernible thru the overcast. It then moved very
rapidly away, stopping momentarily for 3 or 4 mimate intervals and then
di'sappe over the horizon at 19355, No sound was heard. No photographs
were taken (From a signed statement cond account)

ww
fF Gay 7
——— ©

ti Yi

~

i i
a

<a

.
“

‘ !

“Na

eo
4

sia!

fA a
8 Bhs

Pe

fF

:
a

“

Plane had just passed Necker Island at 0535 GCT, At 0558 GCT an intense white
light was observed 60° off starboard bow of plane. It appeared similar to

the light of an approaching plane except that it was extremely intense. The

color was that of an incandescent light without appreciable blue and reddish
tinge. It appeared on a course about 350° true some 5 miles away. ight

grew in intensity (but without any change in color) to a point estimated to be
one mile off starboard bow of the plane. When the PA plane switched over to
mamial control the object suddenly veered to an approximate course of 109°

and then the bright light appeared to split into two parts and assumed a reddish ©
me. These two reddish lights did not have the intensity of the white 1

and appeared about a wing-length apart. As it changed its course the extraordinary
speed was noted. It far outraced the Pan American plane and the twin lights
appeared to burn out 30 miles ahead, The entire phenomenon was observed for some
six seconds. Object was estimated to be traveling 1,000 kmots per hour.

NOTE: Both observers thought it could have been a meteor except “for the manner
in which it held altitude. At no time did it appear to get above or
below 9,500 ft. When it disappeared it still seemed at about 9,500 ft.

at no time did it give off sufficient illumination to reflect on the.
cloud formation at 3,000 ft.

Both observers were questioned as to possibility of optical illusion
end the probability that the object dropped at an oblique angle but
both firmly declared the object apparently changed course and that
it appeared to hold altitude throughout the entire time observed.

PAA plane was eastbound from Midway on magnetic course 98, which is
approximately 110° true, and flying at 9,000 feet at about 205 kmots,
It wes flying on automatic pilot with Griffin in the right-hand seat
in the control cabin and Polhems in the left—hand seat. It was dark
and there were cumlus clouds of about .) density. The sun had set 45
minutes previously.

ge Gy Bee ES BO fh RAE ek