Yong

“4 Sa Sa
3 EXHIBIT B . ‘
Statement taken from Leland Sammons

My name is Leland Sammons and I live on a farm miles west of ekton
and 1 mile north, off WS 2h. ‘ + se

On February 18 at about 5 P.M., I was standing near my hog=pen about 100'
east of my house, when I heard the pheasants raising a disturbance and the
chickens all rushed to the chicken-house. I looked around toward the house
to see what was causing it and saw something hovering just above the house.

I ran towardthe house, am it then lowered over the north end of the house
and settled toward the ground. Iwas then very near it, approximately 6'
when it stopped about level with my face, and just wobbled around for an
instant, fire belching out of it and sucking back in. The thing was about

4" long, shaped something like a fumnel. There was a pipe sticking out the
back of it, and once as it wobbled around, the pipe was sticking right at

my belly. Suddenly there was a lot of sparks showered from it, and the fire
increased as if a fuse might have lighted, and it took off in a north-westerly
direction very fast, gaining altituie as it went. My wife heard it leave and
ran out where I stood, and we watched it go, leaving a trail of smoke all the
way. Suidenly there was a great cloud of smoke in the sky, not more than

40 seconds after it left my yard, and in a few seconds or more, we heard an
explosion. I then stepped off from my house to where it had been, and it

was five steps. ‘es, it was hot, I could feel the hear from it. Had I not
been washing my car prior to the occurrence, wetting the ground, there would
have been a bare spot in the yard where the thing started up because there was
a great rush of fire from it when it left. It must have been quite high when

Kenneth “ays, son of Floyd Hays, 1 miles east of Norton on US 36, at the Jct,
of K-60, south side of highway; At about 5 to 5:30 P.M., not sure of time,

was riding his horse in a pasture, when he heard something queer in the sky.
Looking up to the south-west, he saw what appeared to him to be a rocket

just like he had seen du‘ing the war in Europe. It startled him, and he”
jumped off the horse. He then remounted, watched its course, almost on

a level but losing altitude a little, and it then exploded with a big cloud

of smoke, apparently over Norton, from where he was, south of Prairie View,

He rode on toward home a ways, when suddenly the sound and jar of the explosion
reached him. Mrs, Hays was home in the house, when she heard and felt something
like a truck might have struck the house. She ran out of the house and then
first saw the huge cloud of smoke. About 0 minutes later, a part of the

smoke clow dirfted directly over their house, and went on east over
Phillipsburg. it et! Seep ve
Ralph New, postmaster at Norcatur, stated that at about 4:50 P.M, he was
standing just inside the front window of the postoffice in Norcatur, when

he observed a blinding flash as if someone had taken a flashlight picture.

He could locate no one with a camera, but noticed several men walking to the
center of the street and looking up. He then walked out to where they were
and looking up, saw a high cloud of smoke in the sky almost diredtly overhead

|

pola

It is held by rocketry experts (example, WILLY LEY - see
his ROCKETS, p. 192, diagram and note in connection there-
with) that it would take about 100 hours for a rocket-craft
to negotiate the distance from Earth to Moon.

Prior to its explosion over Norcatur, this object of Feb.
1%th was variously reported as a "falling plane", a "jet
plane", and a “ball of fire". It is said by some to have
left a trail of smoke behind it.

It is the suggestion of this writer that the Army collect

and assimilate reports on this object, with a view to

determining where it was seen as an object trailing smoke .
and where as a ball of fire. .

If this thing is a rocket of some kind headed for the moon,
it might first have been seen as a streak of smoke, then
later as a ball of fire, and lastly as a tremendous ex-
plosion when it at last reached sufficient speed and eleva-
tion for take-off.

The writer has’in mind the various and wuexplained reports
on "flying saucers", and bases this speculation upon a
long consideration of various oddments of reports whose
significance might be of space-craft from other worlds of

space.

The so-called "meteoric procession" which crossed Toronto
in February 1913, consisted of a number of groups of
{llimmated bodies traveling in groups of three and moving
in "rigid formation", all pursuing a course across the
same streak of the earth's surface. “+f a line is projected
backward along this line of flight it will be seen that
this line "comes out" at the position of the moon at the
time. The 1913 phenomenon occurred in the mid-period of
a series of reports on dirigible aircraft of appearance
like zeppelins which were seen over England amd whose
appearance terminated - or reports on the appearances
stopped - just prior to the inferior conjunction of Venus
of April 2), 1913.

The writer begs to call attention to the fact that the
times prior to and just after inferior conjunction of Venus
are prolific in reports of strange things seen in the sky.

Also trat lights have been reported on the moon from time
to time, back for at least a century.

If in the future of military experiment the moon is selected
as a base for the launching of rockets (which has been
suggested by some writers), it may be well to look first

pola

-

horizon of Boise at 3:30 p.m. and another line be dram from the position
of the moon at one hundred hours before the sighting of the Boise object,
and projected to the center of the earth, it will be see that this ten-
degrees-altitudé and the moon-earth line intersect as a place far above
a geographical position considerably to the west of Cape Blance, in the
neighborhoodof about 700 miles off the coast.

The Boise object in its appearance suggests a rocket-typeof craft possibly
using reaction blasts to brake itself down for a landing on the earth.

The bright point and plumy tail of the description suggest this, as also
its apparent fixity in space.

HOLLE'S "SHIP IN FLAMES" —— Nine days after the sighting of the Boise .
object a forest lookout named Earl Holle saw at or soon after ):00 p.m.,
3rd July, 19:7, something he took to be a "tanker in flames", This was |
seen horizon-ward from a point in Sonoma County, California, near to Fort
Ross. A search was instituted by the Navy or Coast Guard, and nothing was
found. The soviet tanker ELBRUZ, which had been in the vicinity, was
queried and found to be allright. This was not explained.

If this apperance had been on the horizon, there is no telling how far
it may have been from the observer,

CAPE MENDOCINO BLIMP INCIDENT -— Not far from the location of Holle's
"burning ship" an accident occurred to a navy blimp, 1 July 1947, off Cape
Mendocino.

This blimp suddenly settled into the water, slipped out its crew and rose
again.

The anomaly here is that one would not expect to find drastic dom-drafts
of such violence as to thus upset a lighter than air craft. Possibly a
dowdraft accounted for the accident - but if the Signal Officer will look
up the incident of the British steamer Talma which, at’the time of the
sighting of a luminous wheel-like phenomenon in the Gulf of Martaban,
reported a slowing of the engines from some unknown cause, it may be seen
that possibly forces are generated in some manner by certain unknown
objects at times in the ocean, which may have physical attraction for
material objects. ‘This blimp accident occurring in.waters where occurred
other phenomena shortly to be mentioned, seems to have a doubtful side

THE QAKIAND OBJECT — Early on the morning of 13th October, 1947, a»
photographer named Ben Dobus togehter with a taxidriver named A. d,
Goldman saw a thing "that looked like Saturn with a ring around it."

It shot at terrific speed WESTWARD across the sky of the Bay area, and was
seen shortly after midnight.

‘This may have been heading in the general direction of what may have been
the goal of two later objects which roughly resemble it in description.

THE TICONDEROGA OBJECTS == According to the tanker Ticonderoga's

second officer, two "flying discs" were seen heading SOUTHWEST when the
ship was in 3 degrees fifteen minutes north and 12) degrees 5 minutes
west, at 0620 GCT, 12th November 19);7.

These may have been heading for the object seen in the Pacific off the
Golden Gate, not long afterward — or possibly at the same time, if earlier
reports on this are consulted. r

“THE PHANTOM REEF — On November 2, 1917, the Navy denied that it had
found a phantom reef or other obstruction to navigation at a point about
00 miles west of San Francisco. The Navay Survey ship MAURY, sent out
there in response to reports of ships that some hugh object had been
seen in the water in that neighborhood, reported that when in the
approximate 1 titude and longitude of the supposed obstruction they
picked up an echo from something in the water 1600 yards from the

ship; but that when they had steamed to within 00 yards of this, the
echo vanished.

There seems a possible connectability between the various elements so
far considered.

Later on January 7, 198, there were occurrences in the neighborhood of
Wilmington, 0., Ft. Knox, Ky., Franklin, Ky., and Nashville, Tenn., all of
which must be now familiar to the archivists of the Signal Office.

Something like a "flying disc" was pursued by one Lt, Mantell ani two
other pilots, “antel being killed while in the process of attempting to
gain altitude to get close to whatever it was he was chasing.

Also, in this connection, it may not be amiss to mention the deaths of

two military officers who were said to have been bringing back material
evidence from "flying discs" one of which was said to have met with some kind
of accident over Maury Island, Puget Sound, around June, 19147.

It will be seen on inspection that the geographical locales of these
incidents fit inside the belt of latitudes hereinbefore mentioned.

THE NORCATUR EXPLOSION was described in a previous letter of this
writer, and it was show in that letter that a line tangential to the
meridian of Norcatur, Kans., at hour-angle 2:20 p.m., would if con-
tinued outward into space to the orbit of the moon, intersect the
moon's orbit at a point where the moon would have been at about 100
hours after the time of the explosion.

According to rocketry theory, it would take a reaction=propelled
craft of the rocket type about 100 hours to reach the moon,

'

Excerpt of letter dated April 11, 1948 from Dr, Lincoln LaPaz, Director,
Institute of Meteorities, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New
Mexico, to the Deputy Executive Director, Committee on Geophysical
Sciences, Research and Development Board: ;

Thank you for the surprising documents sent me under date of March
30, As you remark, certain aspects of Markham's letters are fantastic
(for example: (1) the fireball procession of 1913, February 9, was
genuinely meteoric, although a rare type of chain fall; (2) no astronomer
could take seriously Markham's “invasion by beings from Venus or the Moon"=
theory: (3) he appeals to, and biases in his favor, such untrustworthy
evidence as newspaper stories, e.g., the absurd statement attributed to
Dr. Rocht of the Chamberlin Observatory). Neventheless, Markham is justi-
fied in calling attention to certain incidents as unexplained, for e le,
the "flying lenses" (in my opinion 99% hoax and imagination and 1% peak:

As regards the Norcatur, Kansas incident, I remain convinced that,
like the Four Corners incident, it was a genuine meteorite fall, although
one of exceptional size (again like the Four Corners fall). However,
there are many curious aspects of both these falls, some of an objective
nature, like the singular fact that in spite of intensive searches (ad-
mittedly under bad terrain and weather conditions), not a trace of meteoritic
material has so far been found; some of a non-objective nature, like the
amazing testimony given b y Mr. Leland Sammons, Mr. Alfred Glenn, and other
witnesses of the Norcatur incident, both to members of the State Hi chway
Commission of Kansas and to Institute of Meteoritics field survey parties.
(See exhibits A, °B, ami C enclosed.)

Some comment on such testimony as appears in A,B, and C would seem
desirable: ,

1. Glenn first reported the battery case as red hot. ‘hen I pointed
out that the paper on At was not charred, his account was changed to
too hot to handle", The Institute of Meteoritics party found only two
men, not four, who saw the battery case fall. The battery case has been
examined by Dr. Victor Regener, Department of Physies, University of
New Mexico, who states that it appears to be identical with the small
batteries used in portable radios.

2. K. Hays' identification of the Norcatur object as a rocket has_
the following support? On the moming of February 19, I talked to the
towerman and two assistants at the Air Base at McCook Field, Nebraska.
All three denied the Norcatur object was a fireball and described it as
a black object with an extremely bright jet of flame pouring out of the
rear. Furthermore, a lj-year old, and presumably unbiased, schoolgirl
in Oberlin, Kansas wrote me a similar description of the "Fireball."

AA

(COPY)

‘ EXHIBIT A

Roy W. Cox, Director of Highways
STATE HIGHWAY COMMISSI ON
OF KANSAS
Division 3
Norton
NOTES TAKEN AT NORCATUR, KANSAS, Night of Feb 18

Mr. Ralph New, Postmaster at Norcatur, tells us that at approximately ):50 PM
he was standing in the north window of the post office in Noreatur looking

toward the City 4all when he was suidenly illuminated very brightly by some
terrific light. :

He ran outside into the street where others were looking toward the northeast
at a very large clow of white smoke high in the sky. He stated that in about
a minute and a half, there was a terrific explosion followed by a heavy
rumbling noise like thunder and that the smoke cloud was growing larger all
the time. Also there was a white smoke trail in the sky from the southwest
where the missile had come from.

He said that from the ceriter of the street, the explosion am the first big
mushroom of smoke was directly overhead and at a tremendous height.

Another man in Norcatur stated that just prior to the explosion, he had heard
the motors of an airplane.

Chief Scott learned: from some man in Norton that just following the explosion,
something fell at his feet on the street amd he picked it up, to find that it
was a small flashlight battery resembling those used in ‘fountain pen
flashlights' and that it was red hot. After a crowd of men gathered and
examined it, he was unable to findit amd thinks that someone took it.

Kenneth Hays of east of “orton was about 5 miles south of Prairie View when
he heard something roaring in the sky to the west of him, far away and very
high. He says that it resembled a rocket traveling northeast toward Norton
direction, and that suddenly there was a terrific explosion followed by a
mushroom of white smoke andthat there followed other explosions or something
resembling explosions. When he saw it, it was nearing the ground or horizon,
in other words, losing altitwie.

Edgar Young's boy at Reager, was standing beside the Reager elevator and heard
something high over head, looked up to see a very bright flash of light and
then a lowi explosion followed by a big clow of smoke,

The airport at Norton thought about 20,000 feet, time 4:50. Checked but no
planes missing. h

(\

“

t : if ff £4
Se ree sae Bars t”

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

4AFDA-3/1208-1
SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Discs
SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: |

Information from the Sheriff's Office, Bakersfield, California, revealed
that numerous calls from residents in Bakersfield concerning peculiar objects
in the sky over Bakersfield, predicated an investigation by their office and
contact with A-2 Headquarters Fourth Air Force.

On 13th March 1948, two informants, Mr. George L. Buchner, and “r.
H. B. Nix, stated that they observed a flying object which appeared to be
consumed in fire, ami left a browmish-white plume of smoke, which suddenly
stopped am disappeared. Seconds later, what appeared to be a warachute,
was seen to be drifting to the east,

The object, as described, appeared to be a burning fabric airplane,
consumed in smoke, Observations were made in Bakersfield of object to
the south and southwest, approximately ten to twelve miles distance, around
1600 hours on 5 March 19145.

On 13th March 1948, informant, Mr. H. B, Nix, stated that he observed
an object at 0830, & March 1918, due north of Bakersfield, approximately five
miles distance. The object was a large, orange-red ball of fire, somewhat
larger than a small airplane, appeared to remain static for approximately
thirty seconds, then split and continued to burn; each visible as a burning
half. A parachute, with a black object hanging was then observed to fall,
drift to the east and disappeared into’ the hills east of Bakersfield.

On 13th March 19448, two informants, Mrs. Callie R. “ason, secretary,
Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield, California, and Dr. J. E, Johnson, dentist
Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield, California, stated that they were in
Room 518, Haberfelde Building, on the morning of 9 March 198, Mrs. Mason
was a patient of Dr. Johnson. Both informants stated that they observed a
flaming object which appeared at first to be a very small airplane. Orange
red flames seemed to envelope the object with considerable black smoke
trailing in a zigzag manner for approximately 1,000 to 5,000 feet. The
object was observed at 1,000 feet, approximtely due north of Bakersfield,
seven to ten miles distant at approximtely 0830 hours.

Informants further stated that the object disappeared behind a water
tower, which was an obstruction to their view, and was near the ground.
Both informants watched for an explosion, thinking that it would explode
upon reaching the ground, but nothing wmusual was noted,

7

awa a ee a

F

COMEAM EAT! h

vx

ie

A2B

HEADQUARTERS STRATEGIC AIR COMMAND °
Andrews Field |
Washington 20, D. Cc,

SAC 350 (29 Mar ys)” 29 March 1918

SUBJECT: Report of Unidentified Aerial Sounds.

TO: Chief of Staff
United States Air Force
Washington 25, D. c,
Attention: - ctor of Intelligence

a .

1. The following is quoted from a copy of a letter, Baltimore
Office, FBI, addressed to the Director of Intelli;ence, Second Army: .

"On March 23, 1948, an individual, who desired that her
identity be kept confidential, telephonically communicated with this
office and indicated that she is the wife of a former member of the
United States military forces, am that she is presently active in
American Legion activities, but was emphatic in stating that she was
in no way hysterical or unduly apprehensive regarding present world
conditions. She did, however, wish to bring tothe attention of the
proper authorities that during the past six or eight weeks » ona
number of occasions between the hours of 3:00 and 5:00 4.M., she has
heard peculiar sounding noises in the sky, which appear to come from
airplanes in the distance, but the sound is not the type of airplane
motor drone which isgenerally heard from American planes. She has
discussed the matter with her husband, and he believes that the sound
is more like that of a foreign type airplane. She recently discussed
this matter with an unidentified woman who lives in her neighborhood :
which is Hamilton, Baltimore, “aryland, ani this woman stated that she,
too, had heard the noise in question, and that her husband is also an
ex-G.I, and he has stated that the motors sounded like that of foreign
planes,"

2. No action is contemplated by this headquarters,

FOR THE CQMMANDING GENERAL:

c/e furnished CG, ALAN MARCEAU
AMC, Attn: MCI, CWO, USAF
Asst adj Gen
Ty (ED
uv oe, ¥ &@yes & oS Cap

INCIDENT SUMMARY SHEET
(To be filled out and retained in files)

Date of Observation L Apral 1948. . . Incident # 111
Time of Observation 0995 mmm .....
Where was Object(s) Sighted 2gu® 3° Mast, 12° 52! Herth: - - - -

Observer's Position . Sighted okject fram plane: Phillinine Islands.

(ise. ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer Je® Dh, Robart W Meyers, sieannanailase isth

Occupation and/or Hobbies . Pe? piles.

Attention Attracted to Object (s) By Appe@ating dn Mine of sight during flight
Number of Object(s) Sighted 2... ....

Size of Object(s) sang spam 30 feat, length 2 feat.
Color of Object(s) GRMN 22. wie ew eee ed

aba be (Sketch if ck at Ante qpon dorset fin svhitien a flying wing type .

Nature of Luminosity .... . % ° eo . é

Estimated Distance of Object from Observer . ; piles ,

Spsed of Ghicct(s) $00 WR Aeneoeeweds tS seenend semmnnn great
Tactics 90° eft turn, then level flight accelerating rapidly .
Sound Made by Object(s) .MRmMP.....

Direction of Flight of Object(s) . aye? tbe

Apparent Construction (Of What Material or Substance) . «e+ eee eee

* * 2. 2 * . . e * @ . ee © * * co s,s . . . o 7 . . .

Effect of Objects on Clouds and/or Exhaust Trail . Bene sSbhserved,

. Te A, . . * ©. . . ~ . * 6-2 Se a . . . ee Sie FE 3 ee * © ©

Weather Conditions Existing at the Tins supmlons, base. 3000', tops.

Petuliaritics Noted Objet, made a left. turn,. leveled. ent on & 270°. leading.

Sunmary of Tncidont, 9M Apt, ApwAL, pt, O955.. st. Lib Meyers. was. leeding. a flight
of 4 Pl] pireraft, of the 67th Tighter. %.. 18th Tighter. Grom. Hawas .. .
_ flying @ pean of. 1809.. altitpde 1500, feet, position 124° 5" Zest.and

(Attach a Separate Sheet if Additional Space is Needed)

12 52° North, when he sighted an unidentified object approximately three
(3) ates ee of his position and at an estimated altitude of 1000!
heading 360°. The object appeared to be a flying wing aircraft, its
shape resesbled a half moon. What appeared to be a dorsal fin ws
perceptible. The span of the object was estimated to be 30 feet, 1

20 feet. The object was silwr in color. sighting the object, Lt.
Meyers immediately started e left turn vith the intention of intercepting
Ne ee ee « While Meyers ws making
fy left turn left turn, then leveled out on

a heading of 270°,

approximately 5 seconds.
were observed, St the time of the sigh visibility was unlimited,
scattered cumilous, base 3000 feet, tons feet.

NOTE: Because of the distemce from which the sighting was made, no
distinguishing features, i.e. power units, landing gear, armanent or
cockpit were observed.

The interview with Lt. Meyers indicated that he is a reliable non-
excitable individual who appeared quite positive in his statements. He ws
the only witness to this incident as he could not contact his wing men i
since his radio was out. Apparently the maneuvers perform d by hie three (3)
wing-men prevented their observation of the object.

THE BF. GOODRICH company) & => ug

Minneapolis 3, Minnesota

415 West Rosser Ave
Bismark, N. D.
. 5-23-48 ,

United States Army - Intelligence Div.
Washington, D. C.

Gentlemen:-

On the night of May 17th at about 11:30 PM driving from Baker, Montana
to Miles City Montana on U.S, Highway #12 just West of Plevna, Montana before
getting to the hills I noticed a very bright object in the sky to the North-
west. The sky was overcast in the West but to the South the moon could be
seen at times - with a broken sky. Having traveled this same route for
many years - about 15, I am pretty well used to open prairie road at night
and can tell a star from an unusual object when I see it.

Northwest Airlines travel a Western route just North of this route
also, but I stopped at the Powder River Bridge where the road dips con-
siderably down from a high ridge — cut off my car motor and watched this
object as it sailed around in the sky - which at times close and others
seemed to speed away into the heavy clow bank to the West and then later ~
reappearing, at a very bright white light at what I would juige about not
more than several miles away or closer. I carry a pair of field glasses
with me, and after stopping the car engine watched this thing through my
glasses, which seemed to appear as a small object with a long very bright
light shooting from the under part of it. Because of the speed of the
object and the darimess it was very difficult to make out what it might

be, but I am sure that if I had had a more powerful glass I might have
made it out.

I am perfectly sincere and do not drink so the foregoing is absolutely
the truth. With some of this newspaper funabout flying saucers etc, this
had all of the appearance of just that- and in stopping the car if this
had been an aeroplane I would certainly have been able to hear the motors,

I stopped at a service station just before getting to the Powder River
Bridge but they hai all gone to bed so did not have anyone along with me
to witness the object as it flew through the air. Jt stayed around this

area for about 20 minutes and then flew off through the heavy cloud bank
to the West.

I am enclosing a map showing the location of the foregoing.
Yours very truly,
The B, F. Goodrich Company

/s/ Wa. Bonneville
Territory Manager

“ ——_—-.. es eke —

ee The B. F. Goodrich Co 13.0
1653 Hennepin Avenue

is aD Minneapolis, Minnesota

bi , Race Mes ogee hae SOE 415 W. Rosser Avenue
9 \ Go § BS g VW b &. j Bismarck, N. Dakota
SS Lk. June 18, 1948

Col W. R, Clingerman
U, 5, Army Air Forces
Wright Field
Dayton, Ohio

Refer - MCIAXO-3
Dear Sir: -

In reply to your letter of Jume 15th in which there are several questions
which you desire answred to the best of my ability - with reference to

the object which I saw flying through the air between Plevna ami Miles

City Montana on the night of May 17th, 1 will answer them and give yéu a
graphic description again with a little more elaboration than my previous 4
letter - if that is possible.

Question: - Did the entire object appear to be glowing, or did it give

the effect of carrying lights. Answer: This thing seemed to be a ball of
bright white light - and I could not make out if it was being carriedor just
what made it go — however, it did disturb me quite a little because after
stopping to view it at the Powder River Bridge I could not hear motors
humming such as an aircraft in these parts might have, and I therefore tried _
to find out just what it was by the use of my field glasses,

(b) Question: — An estimate of the size of the object in comparison with
some other known object. Answer - the size of the light which was very
brilliant would indicate that it was fairly large compared with aircraft -
and I would say that this exceedingly bright light which was one light

ani not several was as bright as the headlight on a locomotive, only
about three times that bright and without direction. By this I mean that
this light simply glowed very bright and was not a-directed light.

(c) Que tion: — An estimate of the speed of the object in comparison with

the jet type or conventional aircraft. Answer: This object flew at about -
twice the speed of any aircraft that Northwest Airlines planes fly - because _
it would appear coming thro where I was traveling west on Highway #212 or #12 —
as we call it out here appearing only faintly first and then growing larger
as it approached over the hills north of the highway - until it seemed to
hang there off in the northwest of me brightly and then would turn south
toward the highway there it became real bright and then would start back
West again and fly out of sight. This ting did this several times - which
actwally got my goat - if I may put it that way. (d) Question: Did the |
object appear to be circling at random or didit follow a definite flight
pattern. Answer: As ~ have explained before - the object appeared first when

1) fo G og hold ®b ce ah |
ND UO PE? |
, eae

“\ gp oe Po aoe « f Lo
the West - then turning slightly South and turning in a big swing and
then heading West again - flying out of sight into the dark black
cloud bank out of sight - then reappearing, and it did this several times,
(e) Question: = Is it possible that its disappearance into a "heavy clowi
bank" might have been caused by clouds obscuring reflected moonlight
from a hig ly polished surface. Answer: - No - I have seen aircraft
many times on moonlight nights - but this was not anything like that -
this thing glowed brightly white light such as any real white brilliant
light might. The moon was not bright enough to reflect polished light
unless the craft might have been South of me in the direct light of the
moon — which showed (the moon) fran time to time through the clouis. This
objedt was in theblack section of the sky over to the North of me amd
slightly west, and was a steady oncoming light growing brighter as it
came, and had the appearance of something carrying this light in the air-
but without sound, and it certainly was close enough to me to have heard
motors,

I thought it might have been some kind of a jet aircraft that I perhaps had
never seen — because we as civilians know very little as to what might be
ghing on in defense or experimental mechanics however + rrelt it my duty to
report the thing regardless as to what it might have been, This was
Somewhat difficult for.me to do because of the crackpot stories making

the rounds in some sections about flying saucers etc., but for the life

of me this had all the ear marks of just that kind of a deal.

I have traveled this road about which I have releated this Sighting many
many times and at night Winter and Summer —- and have never before in my
life seen anything like this - so naturally ! was somewhat alarmed about
it, and have steadfastly kept the whole thing to myself. I will certainly
be on the lookout for the dammed thing the next trip I make through this
Same area which is generally after dark - because most of the time I work
from Lemmon South Dakota or Hettinger North Dakota along this highway to
Miles City which is about one days work ith my Dealers. -In times like
these I feel as before stated anything of this nature which we are not
familiar with we are duty bound to report to our Defense Forces who may
be better equipped to understand the unfamiliar than we are,

Yours very truly,

for the B, “. Goodrich Company

WAB
fie te >) s CE of AIn eon cn
bot GC EYE Fe |
ar CS ti.

Incident # 138 cont'd

Capt Darnell, pilot of one P-80 was flying a loose formation in trail
of Lt. Collins while pacing him in a calibrated speed check, The aircragt
were not equipped with wing tanks (Tip). The pilots stated that they were
in the Columbus Area, Mre Zittek's position we from a three quarter pos-
ition at sighting.

4n article wae published by the Columbus News Paper, Columbus,

Ohio, § July 1948,

B42603 Incident # 138

Ge ée

Information received from Captain Boyd, District Intelligence Office,

320 Old Post Office, Columbus, Ohio

Unconventional aircraft sighted by Mrs. Wilda Zittek, 2579 Avalon Ave., Columbus
at 0920 on 8 July. Weather was clear, sun shining brightly, no clouds near the
object. She first saw the object with her naked eye, then spent tw minutes
looking for binoculars. Observed the object for about two minutes with them.
There were two flying objects; both appeared to have a blunt front and seemed

to taper to a point at the rear. The shape was very much like a cigar. The

sun was shining on them and they appeared to be silver in color. With the

naked eye, they appeared to be about the size of airplane when writing in the

sky. They were about 33" in length and 1" in diameter. In other words, they

seemed to be a little more than three times the diameter in length. Speed
was not estimated. Observed for approximately four minutes. When first seen,
they were headed northeast... Seemed to bob up and down rather than pursuing

a set and steady course. Altitude was judged to be approximately 3000 ft.

No sound audible from the object; no exhaust trail visible. First seen in
east going toward Port Columbus, then moved generally north from there.

Binoculars were M3 £X $

The following was broadcast over radio this morning (9 Jul) but persorB not yet
interviewed: On 7 July, five members of one family saw the objects which looked

like pie pans, directly over Port Columbus.

Interrogation ~~ -
MCIAXO-3 12 July 46

1. Contacted Captain Dwight I. Boyd, District Intelligence Officer 109 CIC
Detachment, Old Post Office Building, Columbus, Ohio, at 0900, 10 July 1948. Read the
agents’ report and proceeded with the agent to the home of Mrs. Paul Vittek, 2579
Avelon Avenue, Columbus, Ohio

2. Interviewed Mrs. Vittek and received the same information as contained in the
agents' report (WD AGO Porm 341) except that the bobbing movement described there was
brought out to be a smoothiquntiudatiric: movement “like something going through air

currents".

3. The subject stated that the object was ciger shaped, with a blunt nose and the
t&il obecured. “I couldn't make it out plain: It was like a derk blot”. The main
thing that had attracted her attention was the sunlight reflected from the shiny center
of the object, both ends being indistinct.

4. The subjects’ powers of observation were checked on aircraft flying in the
area and were found to be good as far as direction and movement were concerned, but
ae for distance and altitude. The binoculars were checked and found to be Type M3,

x

» with artillary mil scales imposed. No blemishes or defects in the optics were
found. The subject had no acurate idea as to the amount of the mil scale the object

occupied.

5. A check at Patterson Field Operations showed two F-SO's in the air at the time ~
of the sighting. Contacted Captain Darnell, MORFOF, the pilot of one of the F-S0's who
stated that he was in the Columbus area at the time of sighting. He was flying a loose
formation in trail cf Lt. Collins while pacing him on a calibrated speed check. The

~o were not equipped with wing tip tanks.

6. In view of the fact that Mre. Vittek's sight of the objects was from « three
quarter rear position it is highly possible they were the two P-S0's in the Columbus area -
as this position from a distance lends itself to a distortion comparable to what she saw,
i.e. blunt nose, obscure tail, and apparent lack of wings.

7. #<Acheck was made with the Intelligence Officer at the Port Colusbus Naval
Air Station with negative results. ee eee

La
‘ ’

ATI Branch, Operations Section
Technical Intelligence Div

Unidentified Flying Object =

MCTAXO=3 MCTAKO-l 16 July ls

le At 2147 hours on 9 July 19/8, the undersigned sighted an unidentified object
flying from east to west at approximately three or four thousand feet over the north
end of Osborn, Ohioe

26 The object appeared as a pale yellowish white light that seemed to glow, It
was not a direet beame The light was traveling at a rate of speed between five or
six hundred milese It appeared long enough to allow the observer to determine its
flight path (approximately one to two seconds) and then went outs There was a pause
of three seconds, the light then reappeared agein for the same length of time, another
three-second pause and the pattern was repeatede After the third appearance it was
t seen againe ‘The final sighting was made with the object at an angle of approximately
to the horizon in front of the observer who was locking northe ‘he last sighting
was slightly above the horizon to the west, just north of Pattern Fields The inter-=
mittent appearance of the light was at a regulated interval.

40 The sky was clear with about a quarter moon rising in the East-southeast;
however, nothing could be ascertained except the glow of the lights There was no sound
or traila

lie The undersigned was a reconnaissance pilot in World War II and served for
eight months in the 160th Reconnaissance Sqde (J«Pe) flying FP-SO type aircraft.
It is believed that his powers of observation are above average and that the estimates
of speed can be considered to be fairly accurate.

CLARENCE GLAZEBROCK CWwG/aw

lst Lt., USAF Ext 65310
Bldg 288
Post 201F

pa?)

Interrogation.
MCTAXO-3 MCTAXO=ly 19 July Ls 1

le  Proceeded to the home of Mr. Howard Enslow in Gahanna, Ohio, with an Agent of
the 109th CIC Detachment at 1000, 10 July 19h8.

2. Interviewed Mrs. Howard Enslow who stated that on the night of 1 July 1918
between 2100 and 2200 hours, she, Mr. Enslow, Mr. and Mrs. Chester Taylor and their Sons,
Harold and Jack, of 00 Grove St., Columbus, Ohio, sighted an unidentified object flying
throvgh the aire Mrs. Enslow described it as a “Beautiful golden saucer glowing like a
halo with a silver rim around ite™* Direction of flight was from Northeest to South-
west and the object was visible for approximately therr secondse Subject was very vague a

ad appeared to attribute the phenomena to holy visitationse Was unable to contact
Enslowe

3e  Proceeded to the home of Mre Chester Taylor and interviewed his son Jack, age
23, who had three years service and is now active in the National Guards He stated that
the object was a bright yellow-white light that moved through the sky at a terrific rate
of speeds It was a glow and not a directed light and was about two seconds in durations
It ditntt fade out but ceased abruptly. ‘The line of flight appeared to be flat and the
object appeared from the Northeast going Southwest, at an altitude of about three or
four thousand.feet.s There was no audible noise although it was a quiet night and the
object appeared close in at an angle to the horizon of about forty-five degrees.
Although the sky was clear and the moon was bright nothing but the light was seene

he Mrs Taylor's story was the same as that of his sonts. Mrs. Taylor was in the
car and did not observe the phenomenas The other witness was not readily availablee

56 Proceeded to the sight of the observation and determined that, under the con-=
ditions of course and altitude as estimated by the subject, it was possible that their
e of vision was restricted by a grove of trees thus limiting the observed line of

ight to the two three-second periods reporteds

CLARENCE GLASEBROOK cwG/ew
lst Lt, USAF Ext 65310
< Bldg 288

Post 201F

VAv/

Informents stated that on 11 Aug 4S between 1200 and 1215 hours, CST,
Jerome and Benno were playing in the back yerd and noticed an object

in descent approximately twelve feet from the ground which was descending
between the two of them. It settled to the ground gently - much as &
balloon, Upon hitting the ground the object spun once, made a sort of
whistling noise, described by the two boys as resembling a steam whistle,
and then shot straight up into the air approximtely 20 feet, halted

and again made a whistling noise. The object then shop upwerd to a height
of about 30 feet, and, in this ascent, maneuvered around tree branches
and tel ne wires. Upon reaching a height of approximately 30 feet

the ee shot off in a northeasterly direction. The object approached
from the northwest. —

The boys described the object as "approximately one foot thick, two feet
side and round." The object had no windows, wires, or any visible
appurtenances. It was a dull gray in color and when it hit the ground,
it meade a slight clanking noise, mch as metal hitting against metal.

Philip and Mrs Lever stated the boys were visibly frightened when they
ren into the house and were afraid to tell what they had seen. Upon
close questioning, the boys related the above story to them.

Mr. Leuer advised that he then had notified Mr. E. R, Sheridan, Postmasteh
at Hemel, Minnesota (who subsequently notified the proper anthorities)

AGENTS NOTES: Agent noted that the spot where the alleged “flying seucer"
had landed was approximately 2 feet in diameter and appeared as though
some heavy object had landed there or had been set down - as the ground
was i and protruding rocks had been leveled. The spot was covered by
a weshtub.

’ BE. R, i Postma » ad t he had

reason to doubt “the Pagan ig org, Reg 3 a oy Ply od and

i by reason had reported the matter to the Federal Burem of Investigation,
te » Minn.

Incident # 170 Cont'd

these might be rockets, Information received
reveals that such a thing — over
air. Parte of it fell into a village
The thing we found to be a rocket and the
by experts. Obers End Quote",

to have come from the
rs

over Adapazari before

According to rumors , it is possible that the rocket is connected with
the “flying disc" experiments being conducted by the Russians at the
station on Mt. Alagoz close to the Zastern frontiers,

Source: NA Ankara, Turkey, 10 May 1945, Serial S6-%, Gval FO

Comments Air Attache, Ankara, Turkey has been requested to inv stigate
this incident fully and encourage Turkish General Staff to do likewise.
Whether incident can be confirmd or not Air Attache has been directed
to determine sources for information contaimd in Yeni Sebsh article,

~siieSGR0S- Incident # 170

Incident # 171 Cont'd

About Sunset on 3 Aug 1948, dout 25 kilometers (20miles) northwest of
American rter saw an unidentified

a from reflected sunlight.
was heatd, It looked like a rigid ¢

was so identified by a Russian acquaintance who saw it at
reporter, in gpite of the appearance of

NA COMMENT: This object might have been anything, Its speed seems
insufficient for a guided missile, but it could have been
either a jet or a conventioml airplane as umsual light
conditions and fore-shortening frequently give aircraft a
freakish appearance, The possibili ty that it wea dirigible
should not be excluded. Heference “A*

should not be excluded,

REFERENCE At The upper winds in Russia are not publised but it ws noted
that on the following morning there were high surface winds
with storm predictions.