FUIPA #389

CKETT STREET ~ DONOTs
DESTROY,

STANDARD FORM No. 64 * +
2

Office Memo; dum + ontrep si OVERNMEN

TO

ys
Ae pL FROM

a
A

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (yy DATE: September 4, 1947

SAC, San Francisco th ATRMAIL

SPECIAL DELIVERY
REPORTS of FLYING DISCS

Seat ae

Enclosed is a copy of a letter dated August 25, 1947, with

attachment fran Lt. Col. DONALD L. SPRINGER of A~2, Hamilton Field,
California. Even though Col. SPRINGER feels that Mr. JOHNSON may
have read some of his claims in a newspaper, Col. SPRINGER believes
that Mr. F. MX JOHNSON should be interviewed in this matter.

In accordance with Bureau Bulletin No. 42, dated July 30,
1947, Portland is requested to exhaustively interview Mr. F. M.
JOHNSON, 106 N.W. First Ave., Portland, Oregon, regarding his
alleged sighting of a "flying disc" on June 24, 1947. Copies of
the result of this interview should be furnished the San Francisco
Field Office for distribution to the 6th Army Intelligence,

DWK: MR
Encls. 2
62-2938

ee Portland (Mncls. 4) — AMSD

2 gyi

oO

DECLASSIFIED

Authority:
NND 90986

Office of the
fence
Hamilton Field, California

4APDA

SUBJECT: Flying Disc.

Special Agent in Charge, FBI, U. S. Department of Justice,
Federal Office Building, Room 422, San Francisco, Calif.

le The attached true copy of a letter from M F,

received by this officer 22 August 1947.

2e Your attention is invited to the similarity between Arnold's
early report and this gentleman's report. A possibility exists that

Mre Johnson might have read some of this- in the newspapers when Arnold
was publicized re this mattere

Se This headquarters does not intend to investigate this incident.
It is requested thet a result of any interview you may make be furnished
this headquarters.

A
i
i DONALD L.
: (dup)! Lt. Yolonel,
fr F.M. Johnson AC of 8S, A-2
True Cy)

nel

+
4
T+
LU

.
{

STANDARD FORM NO, 64

SUBJECT:

+

Office: Men dum * UNITED § GOVERNMENT

Director, FBI DATE: September 4, 1937
Atten: Assistant Director D. M. LADD
SAC, San Francisco

REPORTS OF’ FLYING D a

ATRMAIL

Enclosed for your information are copies of two letters
from Lt. Col. DONALD L. SPRINGER of A~2, Hamilton Field, California,
dated August 27, 1947, with attachments reporting the sighting of
"flying discs" on Guam, and result of A-2 investigation at Tacoma
and Kelso, Washington.

DWK: MR
62-2938

copyr
AIR RESCUE SERVICE
DETACHMENT 8 (624 AAF 8U)
MeChord Field, Tacoma, “aehington

4 August 1947

ra.

SUBJECT: Pinal ‘“ission Report

TOs Commanding Officer
Air Rescue Service
WaeDill Field, Florida

le MISSION NUNSER Thirty-Nine.

Ze HATURE.

ie At O4 PST, 1 August 47, ARMY FLIGHT SERVICE notified this
Getachment that a plsne had been seen to orash and burn thirteen (13) miles
south of KELSO, Yashineton (46°S'N, 122°65'W).

Se ACTION TAKEN

Ge 1 Aug 47- At 04:50 PGT, APS received information from Mre
Ge Clark, loonl sheriff of EELSO, Washes, that the scene of the crash was
fifteen (15) to twenty (20) miles east of KELSO in the vicinity ef GOBBLE
CREBK. The KSLSO Chief of Police saw an aircraft fly low over the town,
then crash and burn to the east. The time was about 0236 PST, A check of
eairoraft known to be in the vicinity revesled that 5-25 71516 had departed
NCCHORD FIELD at 0212 PST for HAMILTON PIELD, California. The weather was
reported as CFR, A full moon made visibility exceptionally sood. The
pilot's name was CAPT. W. C. DAVIDSON; the plane carried three (3) additional
personas. the Base Operations Officer and Base PIO were notified. This
detachment began organizing « ground party of base personnel to supplement
that being formed by the KELSO Chief of Police. At 0500 PST information
was received from KELSO by APS that ground fog in the valleys eat the seene
of the crash was preventing a ground party frem locating the plane. Since
no communication had been received from 8-25 71516, it was aesumed thet it
was the plane reported as crashed. ARS C+47 was preeflichted to transport
the Army ground party to KELSO but a check of the field conditions there
deemed it advisable to use a smaller aircraft. Of the two Ceéis available,
one belonging to APS was unserviced after a night flights the other, belong-
ing to AACS, was readied even though a responsible officer of that organ-
ization was not present to authorize the flight. Fog at KELSO prevented
take-off until 0700 PST. The ground party, led by CAPT. W. Le LITTRELL and
CAPT.» Te He FPORSBERG, consisted of six men ineluding a medical technician
end a photographer. At OGOO PST, the EPLSO Chief of Police notified AFS
that a passenger of the crashed airplane was in his office and had confirmed

‘

Subjects Final “ission Report” 4 Auguet 1947

The belief that the crash was that of the unreported 3-25. ‘The Passenger,
Sgte Ne Le TAPP, of FT. LAWTON, SEATTLE, was uninjured, but reported that
the erew chief, T/Sgte We DU. MATHEWS, was at a farm house near the scene of
the orash and was injured. igte TAFF then led an ambulance to Sgte BATHEWS
who was subsequently taken to @ local hospital, At 0610 PST an attempt
was made to telephone Sq, 5 at HAMILTON FIELD but no anewer was received;
however, it was known that HAMILTON APS wes aware of the incident and
would notify Sq. 3, At O700 PST Capt. LITTRELL departed in a Ce45 for
KELSO, At O745 PST Sq B wae contacted by phone and given a flash report.
At O905 PST CAPT LITTRELL phoned and informed that he had placed CAPTAIN
FORSBERG in charge of Army porsonnel proceeding to the scene of the crash.
No serial search wae necessary es civiliens in the area knew tho exact
location of the crash and had reported finding one (1) body in the wreokhce.
CAPT. LITTRELL prepared to fly Sgt's TAFF and MATHEWS to MCCHORD FIELD e
for medical attention, arriving et 0945 PST. The survivers steted that s
they believed neither the pilot nor co-pilot has parechuted from the

planes ‘The cnuse of the incident was at this time determined to be a fire
in the left engine, CAPT LITTRELL was informed by Set. TAFF thet he
believed classified documents had been aboard the planes CAPT FORSBERG

was instructed to take necessary precautions, An anbulance met the plane
at MCCHORD FI¢LD carrying the two survivors and took them to the hospital.
Interrogation revealed that the left engine had onught fire in the power
section and flames and smoke hed spread to the flight deck almeat imned-
latelys the crew chief, MATHEWS, assisted TAFF in attaching his chest

pack and TAF abandoned the plane at an estimated altitude of 10,000 ft
(thie fact ise doubted bat is not considered necessarily relevant).

ZATHEWS helped the pilot and co-pilot attach their chest packs (all per-
sonnel had beon wearing the harness) and as he left the plane wes aware that
the es=pilot was preparing to follow. The pilot had started to leave and,
to the best recollection of MATHEWS, was partially standing and holding

the control wheel with his left hand. MATHEW'S statenents indicate that
proper emergency procedures had been performed but that the flames had en-
veloped the sntire left side almost immediately. TAFFY stated that, because
of the full moon and good visibility, he saw MATUEWS leave the plane and
was able to follow the plane to the ground and that he saw no one elae

bail out. The ship was enveloped in flames and was beginning to fell apart
before hitting the ground where it exploded and burned about one (1) mile
from where he, TAFFY, landed. Me lit in a tree, end not knowing how to
release his parachute of the quick=detachable kind, cut himself loose frou
the harness with hie peoket knife. Se kicked end struggled and eventually
jumped to the ground, receiving « jolt on impact dut was unable to ruess
how far he had fallen. He then followed a cow path for an estimated two
(2) miles to a farm house, arriving after MATHEWS, Meanwhile, as MATHERS
cleared the plane he turned and sew the plane strike the ground, explede
and burme Just before or just at the time of impact he saw an ob ject

afire thrown olear of the plane but did not know whether it wee « person

or part of the plane. MATHEWS aleo lit in e tree, and after freeing himself
from his harness, fell to the ground where he injured his back. He lest
conselougness and on recovering went to the burning plane, about fifty

Sones tang

Subject: Final Mission Hepes ” 4 August 1947

(60) yards away, Flares were going off and he thought best to leave the
acene, He heard a stream nearby end followed it until he came to a house and
aroused the oceupants.e Soon TAPP arrived at the same house and, being un-
injured, was driven into towne Then he led an ambulance to effect transporta-
tion of MATHEWS to a hospitale Mearnchile, civilians reached the scene of

the erach where they found one body. At 0930 PST, a message from Sq 3
informed that top escret material was in the navigators kit and to request
Commanding Officer MCCHORD FIELD to expedite all available information to
Commanding Officer HAMILTON FIELD. Meanwhile, CAPT PORSSERC and four (4)
enlisted men departed KELSO at 0830 PST for scene of the crash, ‘Thoy were
transported by the MASHINOTON STATE POLICE who knew the exact location of

the plane (46°O9'N « 122043°W). ‘The ground party determined upon arrival

at the soene, that two (2) bodies were in the wreckage. Indications led to
the belief thet the co-pilot was afire when he left the plane an instant ‘
before impact. Ti. pilot's remains were found in the wreckage, Pree
liminary investigation by CAPT FPORSBERG disclosed the planes left wing

about one hundred twenty-five (125) yards from the widely scattered porte
tions of the planee The left wing was intact. and hed epperently torn

off Just. outboard of the left engine before impact. The forward portion

of the wing stub was melted but the rear two thirds indicated that it had
ripped loose from the inboard section of the wing. The wing leading edge
was undemaged. The naVigation and landing lichts were wuibroken. The

aileron was undamaged but the flap section was crushed, leading to the

belief that the wing struck the teil section. From these indications

it is believed the wing ripped from the airplane just after MATHENS
abandoned the plane. The resulting spin thus prevented the remaining

crew members from bailing out although the co-pilot may heve been in the
hateh. A Pew civilians were in the area when CAPT FORSBERG arrived

and he took precautions to prevent them from disturbing the wreekaze.

At 1257 PST CAPT LITTRELL flew CAPT RICK, M. C., to KELSO, An ambulance
dispatched from MOCHORD PIELD, met them at KELSO, and was led to the seene

of the erash by the STATE PODICE. The bodies were recovered and trans-
ported in the ambulance to NOCHORD PIELD. CAPT LITTRELL returned to

MCCHORD PIELD where camping equipment was prepared to be dropred to the
ground party. CAPT LITTRELL, made a suocessful drop at dusk by sighting
on @ signal fire. The ground party set up camp at the wreckage scene to
aot as guard and te investigate further the following day. They were
relieved of responsibility of «11 recovered documents by a CIC agent who
hed arrived about 18600 PST.

bs 2 Aug 47 The ground varty remained at the scene of the crash
pending official securing of the incident. No nerial activity.

Ge GS Aug 47¢ MOCHORD FIELD Operations Officer departed at 1000
PST to investigate the accident and to relieve CAPT FORSBEARG, who returned
at 1600 PST. Incident closed.

Subjects Final Mission

sorties flown

jal hours flown by Army aircralt

URCHAS
\l) None

a. Cooperation reesived from 211 civilian agencies Seneermed
was complete and excellent.

Captain,

JOpmandin

nels
lePhoteRraphs

aa YOURTH AIR FORCE .

Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, Aug

Hasilton Pield, California

Timez itavestigation of Flying Dise

ASON FOR INVESTIGATION: 8veetigation initiated at the request of Air Defense
Coumninde reference ltr lig ADC, dtd 7 Jul 47, file DSS3,5ID, subjs Investigation of

Flying Dieses
SYHOPSISs

On $1 duly 47, Mre Arnold, Aviation “ditor of the Ideho daily Stateaman, teler
phoned Lie Grown requesting he return te Tacoma because Arnold believed he had sone
very vitel information on the flying disce

Lie Srown end Capt. Devidson interviewed a Ur. Fred Le Crigman and a Wr. lerold
Ae Dahl, slong with Capt. Smith of the United Air Lines, end Wire Arnold, at the Wine
throp Hotel in Yacom, Washington, on the night of 31 July 1947.

The summery ef their interrogation and findings was related te Major Sender,
Public Information Officer, MeChord Field, by lire Arnold and Capt. Smithe Major
Sander retold the results of the investigation to this officer from his notes.

ire Dahl and Mrs Criaman were net available for interview while this officer
was in that area, althoush every effort was made to contact theme

Further investigation of this particular incident was left with Mre Srady,
Resident Agent, FEI, Tacoma, Washingtone

It was epperent from newspaper clippings, telephone calls to this officer, and
conversations with Sejor Sander, that a United Prees correspondent, of the Tacoma
Times, wes instrumental in keeping this case alive. ‘This officer and Major Sander,
although quoted many times in the press, did not discuss this matter with the press
during the period of this report.

The anonymous mystery caller in Tecoma could possibly be Mr. Crigmans

DisTRIBUTION

SSCL ESE TE). ~ a § eM

PSI, Seattle

» San Francisco 1

Habe ae be aia alma ! AUG 30 1947

SAM FRASEISCK
Wee ee ae RON een
(This form supersedes W. D., O. C. S. Form No. 19, which !
will not be used upon receipt of this revision) eee eremeres cos, «

Ci-R1 Fzgport * ; r s

DEPALLSs

ie During the afternoon ef 31 duly 47, Mire Arnold, Aviation Sditer of the
idehe Daily Statesman, telephoned Lt Srown, CIC Sub=Detachment Commander at Seade
quarters Fourth Air Fores, end stated in eubstence: That he, Arnold, and Capt Smith
had errived in Tacom to investigate the purported flying cise explosion on @ gure
fave craft om 21 dume 47, ‘This investigation was requested and finanesd by a Ure
w+ ons Palmer of the Venture Prees, 305 Studie Bldgs, 1718 thernen Aveme, 'vangsten,
Rilincie.

AGENT"S WOTEs See Enclosure 2 and Inclosure 2. The signatare to Inelosure a, Ure
Cave Johnson, is that of the editor of the Idaho Daily Statessane Ure dohason is «
former Aruy Air Poros officer end from all indieations te a very patriotic Anerican.e
On the receipt of Inclosure 2 at Jeadquarters Fourth Air Yorce, this offieer requested
the San Prancisoo FGl Office te check the Chicago FEI Offies for Re Ae Palmer and the
Venture Press, the return anewer, by telephone, was te the effeet that the Chieags
indiess of the PRI, the Uhieage Police, and Credit bureau hed ne record on Re As
Peluer or the Venture Frees.

8 Lh Srown and Capt Lavidson arrived eat MeTherd Field during the afternoon
of 31 daly 47- They changed from their uniforms to civilian elothing in the airoreft
and, on being queried by Operations as to why they desired transportation to Tacoma,
they replied they wero to unke a speeches

AGENTS NOREs Thie wns in compliance with per 4, ler fr Rg AIM, Pile b3SS-612,
7 Jal 47, aubje Investigation of Flying Pisces

Agoording to “Major George Sander, Public information Officer, secherd Piola, The
Tacoma Times received an anonysous telephone call that Arnold and Geith were present
in the Winthrop Setel for the purpose of conducting an investigation on the fiying
diete The Tecome Times checked and found this te be true, moh to Arnold's end Snith's
curpriges Lt Srown and Capt Devidson 4ié interview tr. lmreld 4, ehh, Mr. Fred Le
Crieman, in ® hotel room in the Winthrop Note], Tacoma, Washe, in the oresence of
ir, 4rnold end Capt Gndthe If notes were taken of this conversation, they were de-
stroyed in the Gircreft accident. Mrs Arnold stated to “ajor Jander thet Lt Srown
obtained from Wire Gehl end Mire Crigman samples of an unidentified substance thet were
identical to those sppearing in Inclesures 3 to 7. ‘the samples pictured in Inclosures
& to 7 wore taken by tr. Arnold from the seme box thet Dahl and Crisman offered MM.
Grown and from which he obteined his samples, %/Sgh Matthews, Grew Chief on the
wreeked aircraft, upon being interrogated by this officer, stated that he pleeed a
heavy cardboard carten in the rear compartment of the B25 that erashede Se did not
look in the box nor heer any comments from 14 Brow or Capt Oavideon es to ite con}
tantae te

Se The following cummeriges what was related by re Arnold and Capt Suith to
Wajor Sander as to the substance of the interrogation by Lt trom end Capt Davideens
That on 21 Jun 47 Mr» Sahl wes preceeding south of Maury Island in Mire Grigwen's
beste Five flying diece came down out of the clouds and cireled slowly around the
way, dropping to an estimated elevation ef 500 feet. Thess dises appeared round and

CONFIDENTIAL

W.D.,P.M.G. Form No. 110

CI-R1 Report r ; : *

flattened Gimiler to @ deflated automobile immertube. They were judged by Dahl to
be Gpproxinately 100 feet soross with a 25 foot opening in the center. The outer
edg0 of the object had round portheles and the inner ring hed square windows or
portholes. The dises were silent and from hie viewpoint he could see ne means of
propalsions “ne ef these dieses eppeared to falter end waver in the air, another of
these aforementioned five dieos drepped dewn close te the dise that appeared to
waver and bumped it, dumping “tons” of the stuff as pictured in inslesure 3 te 7
on his boat, mocking off the handrail, horn, end conerelly dasaging the boat te
the extent of $200.00, and killing Ushi's dogs

AGEST*S MOTH: This officer, in the company of Mejor Sender, voarded the aforemene
tioned bost where it was docked in the Sacomm harbor on 6 Aug €7, A hand rail was
missing, bat the ares where the hand rail wes previously fastened had been painted
over with several conte of paint end was oresked by the weathers The deck and roof
of the cebin was of « very thin scenstructicon and the eabin further had gless on the
front and gidege 1% is thia offieer*s opinion thet if any of the objecte presented
by Sehl as eaxplee of the material dropped by the flying Giese had hit this beat, it
would heve gertaiuly been neosesary to replese the foredesk and the cabin roof.
These two arene were very heavily coated with several esets of paint and head deep
weather cracks thet would teke evvernl seasons te aequire.

Mire Srigman, who owns the beat and operates a shereline unter patrol for various
business fires, evidently visited the area at Heury Ialend to check fehl’s stery.
Se te aupposed te have steted that he found the material that he pressuted to Le
Grown and Capt Yevideen in « send pit near where the ineident was supposed to have
eceurred. “hile he, Criemn, was at the seene of the incident, a flying diac cane
out of the clouds end behaved in « similar wammer es the ones previously deseribed.

AGERT*S HOT: The whtsessing on two ceensions, in broad daylicht, of an object so
large and elearly vieible within several miles of the city ef Income certeinly should
heve been seen end reported on by other then Jehl and Criwmen. A check was made of
the newspapers on and after Zl dam end no mention could be found of « mrsterious
object appearing over the Tecoma harbors

“re Crigsan is supposed to have sent sexmples of the objects that he pieked up in the
Maury Island sand pit to a friend of hie at the University of Shieage for an analysis
report. lie ia reported to have net reesived the enulysis reporte

A90NT*S WOLEs It te peesible that the tire *» A, Palmer, reference Inclosurs 1 and 2,
wight heave come eeross this incident tarough the University ef Chicages

The in tion of Ushl and Crianen by Lt Green was completed about midnight on
Sl Jaly/i Anguate 14 Brow: and Capt Sevidson returned to SeCherd Field and prepared
for & night flight to Hamilton Fields ‘the weather was clear with a bright meen
shining. They departed approxiwntely O200 hours and crashed at approximately 0250
hours on 1 August 1947. (See inclesure &).

eo Gm 6 August 47, this officer, in the company ef Wajor Sender, Yetherd Field,
ang “re Grady, resident agent, Tacome Peters! Surenu of Investigation, attempted te

CONFIDENTIAL

W.D.,P.M.G. Form No. 110

CI-R1 Report é : j s

\ Pep

contest elther Hre Dahl or “re Grisman, without success, Capt Smith end Wire Arnold
departed the tscome ares on 3 August 47, therefore, this officer did not have the
Spportunity of conversing with them directiye

AGBHT*S HOPE: A reeord cheek was onde by telephone by “re Brady with the Seattle
Field Office, FRI, for records on Mre Oriemen and Ure Yehi,e The cheek on “re Criecen
was negetive. The Seattle PSI indleos indicated thet a tareld Sahl had been charged
with twe ineidente of iliegel wearing of the uniform end one with thelt of national
property. it eould not be determined at the tine whether Sareld A. “ahi, the eubject
im question, end Zereld Osh of the FOI indiews, wag one and the sands

Se Ms Criewmn hed indiested te Capt Snith, Arnold, et al, that he was a
former fighter pilet and held soumiesion se Captain in the Air Reserves

AGENT*S BOTRs On 6 August <7, thie officer checked the reeorda of the 400th AAP

S0( RT) and determined that Fred iy Crianun was regietered with thet Reserve Unit as
Captain, Zerinl Humber Ow753951, with residenee at 125 ieodland, Sacom, Nachington,
Primry 105 1054 and 1006. Im 1062 so was with the Criminal lovustigetion Mvisien,
State of YWeohington, and cravieusiy had been en 011 teeknician with the Union Pacific
Railways Orlesen eatered the services in 1942 as an enlisted man and served as seach
fer sevexnteon aontha. In 1943 he was comsiesioned on graduation from flying sehool
and served a tote] of teentyenine sonthes cheek ef the tacoma eity directory was
made on Uerold 4, Sahl, which indiented his home was at 8903 B. “obe Sts, tolephone:
Preeter T7117. Susiness address was listed as 235 Widdle “aterwayy telephone: Broade
wey T7336

RECOMMERDATIONs

1. That mo farther investigation be undertaken on this apecifie incident by
Apay Aly Feree persomel.

Ze Thet in view of the reported statements by Mire Crianman, thet consideration
be given te revoke bis Air “eservwe commiasion and flging stetus as an undesireble
and umreliable officer.

§ Incles
le Photegtat, ltr fr ReAsPalmors
Ze FPhotestat, telegram fr Dave Johmsens
Se to 7e Photographs, Unidentified Dubsetances
6» Pineal Miesion Report, Air Kesous Services

W.D.,P.M.G. Form No. 110

COPIES

Office Memo wt +» UNITED Sla... +OVERNMENT

}

TO : Directors FB DATE: 7-29-47
”)

/ 4)
FROM : SAC, Boston \ FAKE L 1 £ -—

SUBJECT: METAL FRAGMENTS ORSERVED AT WEST RINDGE, NEW HAMPSHIRE, JULY 7, 1947
SECURITY MATTER (X

Reference is made to Boston teletype to the Bureau dated July 18, 1947,

Dean John M, Bunker, the original informant, has advised that a spectographic
examination has been completed of the metal particles referred to, They were
determined to be of ordinary cast iron which had been subjected to a very
high degree of heat, The heat caused scales to be formed on the oast iron
which were originally thought to be of some metallic alloy,

The scientist examining the particles conoluded that if they had come through
the air from any great altitude in as small pieces as they were found then
most of the heat would have been taken from them by the time they reached

the ground and fires would not have resulted, It is noted they landed
approximately 700 feet from a railroad track and inquiries were conducted by
MIT to determine whether or not the particles could have been originally a
part of a liner in a smoke stack or some other part of the steam engine, These
inquiries resulted in positive information that the particles did not come from
a train or locomotive, Measurements of the four pieces examined revealed

that they had most likely been originally all part of one hollow cylinder,
eight inches in diameter and three sixteenths of an inch in thickness, It

was felt that one piece falling from a great height would have still retained
a good part of its heat and probably would have smashed when it hit the ground,

4 scientist, whom Yean Bunker did not identify by name, recalled that cast
iron cylinders of similar measurements had been used in New Mexico on
research work on a guided missile project. However, this unidentified scientist
id not so conclude to the exclusion of all other possibilities,
NONR Nan)
= interesting to note that the examination at MIT was actually conducted
(b) (7)(D) Who furnished the Boston Office with an informal report similar —,
in all major details to that supplied by Lean Bunker above, The men at MIT
are gathering through friends all additional pieces of the original cyli <i
available, These will be turned over to the Yoston Office, No further” —)—
examination is being conducted by MIT and no effort is being made t
reconstruct the original cylinder, all

"ny ww
PY £

Unless advised to the contrary by August 15, 1947 the Boston Office will
destroy these specimens, In the interim they will be transmitted to the

Bureau on specific Bureau instructions,

~GY

2°70 NOV 18 1364 EY 64

(b) (7)(D)

It is noted that the original 4oston teletype reflected that this inquiry

was being treated as “secret” matter at MIT. (b)(7)(D) has advised that
the comparatively small number of research scientists at MIT during the summer
are all cognizant of the incident and the results of the research, However,
no publicity has been given and it is not anticipated that any will result.
The Sureau's interest is not known to the scientists at MIT. There has been
no speculation that a guided missile originating in a foreign land landed

in New Hanpshire,.

As indicated above, unless the Bureau requests specifically further investigative
action, this case is being closed in the Boston Office.

BSG:md
100-20698

FBI BUTTE 8-15-47

RECTOR, FBI URGENT \
FLYING DISCS. ON INSTANT DATE A. cURIE OF TWIN FALLS, mani We
INFORMED LOCAL NEWSPAPER THAT COMMUNITY THAT AT ONE PM ON WEDNESDAY
LAST, AUGUST THIRTEEN, HE AND TWO SONS BILLIE, AGE TEN, KEITH, APRRK
AGE EIGHT, SAW AN OBJECT NINE MILES NORTHWEST OF TWIN FALLS, RE~
SEMBLING FLYING DISC. URIE STATED THIS OBJECT WAS PROCEEDING @90KX
DOWN SALMON RIVER AT TERRIFIC SPEED ESTIMATED BY HIM AT ONE THOUSAND
MILES PER HOUR. URIE AND SONS DESCRIBED OBJECT TO NEWSPAPERS AS
TWENTY FEET LONG, TEN FEET WIDE AND TEN FEET THICK, LIGHT SKY BLUE
IN COLOR AND ALSO OBSERVED FLAMES EMANATING FROM SIDES OF OBJECT.
AT TIME URIE AND SONS SAW OBJECT THEY ALL HEARD LOUD SWISH WHEN
OBJECT DISAPPEARED FRIM SIGHT. CURRENT EFFORTS BEING MADE TO INTER-
VIEW URIE AND SONS PURSUANT TO BUREAU BULLETIN FORTY TWO, SUB DIVISION
B, DATED JULY THIRTY NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN. BUREAU WILL BE PROMPTLY ,

AND FULLY INFORMED OF ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS. é ord yk

BANISTER

END = HF lates Ay
PLS ACK AND HOLD

P27

7-48 PM OK FBI WA BW

>

STANDARD®SORM NO, 64

é Ofice Mer 9 dum + UNITED : ‘ GOVERNMENT

10° “ae; The Director DATE: August 1¥¢ 19h7

FROM : Mr. De. M. Ladd

SUBJECT: ~ FLYING DISCS

———

In connection with your request to be advised as to the facts
concerning newspaper reports of flying discs in the Portland area and the ix.
reported conference of army officials in Portland concerning flying dises, ir. ‘icsse-
the Portland Office has advised that Leaveritt G. Richards, aviation Kiss Gendy
editor of the "Oregonian," has stated that Captain William LDavidson
and Lieutenant Frank M. own of the Fourth AAF Headquarters, San Francisco,
were in Portland on July 27, 197. While in Portland they interviewed Dick

“\. Rankin, an experienced pilot, who had reported that he observed, on June 1),
a formation of ten flying discs over Bakersfield, California. Richards added
that Davidson and Brown had also interviewed the following four experienced
‘pilots who were among the first,.to report seeing discs, Kennet “Arnold, businessman
from Boise, Idaho; Captain E. JSmith, a co-pilot; Ralpp/Stevens, United Airlines
and DavéxJohnson, aviation editor, Idaho"Statesman." In order to determine the
purpose of these interviews Richards contacted Major General Twining of Wright Field,
Ohio, and from him gained the impression that the AAF instituted this investigation
to wash out the disc reports since they are definitely not of AAF origin.

On Friday, August 1, the plane in which AAF investigators, Captain
Davidson and Lieutenant Brown, were flying, crashed at Kelso, Washington and both
were killed. The wreckage was screened by AAF Intelligence from McChord Field.
The "Tacoma News Tribune" and through them the United Press put out a story that
the plane was carrying parts of a dise which had struck a boat owned by Harold
Dahl and Fred Chrisman. It has also been inferred that this plane was sabotaged
to prevent these disc parts from being examined.

STATUS

Investigation by the Bureau has reflected that this plane was definitely
not carrying parts of a dise and there appears to be no substantiation of a sabotage
chargee

For your further information there is attached a blind memorandum setting
forth in more detail the results of the investigation surrounding the above plane
crash. No further inquiry is being made in this matter.

ACTION
Air Force Intelligence has been advised of the results of our investi-
/ pu

&
INDEX]

tay i

gation.

RGF :mjp

COPIES DESTROYED / 4

270 NOV 18 1904
EX-8]

August 14, 1947

FLYING DISCS

The "Tacoma News Tribune" and through them the United Press put out
a story that an army plane which was allegedly carrying parts of a dise which
had struck a boat owned by Harold Dahl and Fred Chrisman had crashed on August
1, 1947, killing two Air Force Intelligence officers who were interviewing
persons who were alleged to have seen flying discs.

Harold A. Dahl and Fred Chrisman, when interviewed by Bureau Agents,
advised in a signed statement on August 7, 197, that in the early part of June,
1917, they picked up some strange rock formations from a gravel pit on Mauri
Island, Washington. They sent a cigar box of these formations to one Ray Palmer,
editor of the Venture magazine in Evanston, Illinois and also editor of the
Fantasy magazine in Chicago, Illinois. According to them they requested Palmer
to make only a chemical analysis of the rock formations. Palmer then wrote
asking for additional samples stating he had been unable to analyze the material.
Dahl and Chrisman remarked that a few days after the flying disc stories appeared

during the latter part of June, Palmer contacted them by telephone saying he would
pay for an exclusive story if the materials they had sent him were fragments of

a flying disc. Dahl said he wrote Palmer a letter in which he represented the
material as being a part of a flying disc, and both Dahl and Chrisman admitted
that this statement was entirely false.

Dahl and Chrisman then received a call from one Kenneth Arnold of
Boise, Idaho who requested them to meet him at the Winthrop Hotel in Tacoma on
July 31, 1947. According to them Arnold called in army intelligence officers
from Hamilton Field, California and one Captain Emil H. Smith of United Airlines
of Seattle, Washington to attend this meeting. Dahl and Chrisman maintained
they told the intelligence officers Captain Davidson, Lieutenant Brown, Kenneth
Arnold and Emil H. Smith exactly how they got the rock formations and that they
had no connection with any flying discs. Dahl and Chrisman stated that they then
furnished some of the rock formation to the intelligence officers as samples.

Captain Davidson and Lieutenant Brown left Tacoma, Washington in a B-25
to return to Hamilton Field, California about 2:30 A.M. August 1, 197, and were
killed when their plane crashed at Kelso, Washington, after the left engine
burned out an exhaust stack which in turn caught the left wing on fire which caused
it to break off. The crew chief and each officer parachuted to safety.

Ernie Vogel, an Associated Press wireman at Tacoma advised that two or
three days after the flying disc story started he contacted Dahl to check the story

COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 18 1964

that the Seattle Post-Intelligencer had received from the Fire Chief at
Harbor, Washington, to the effect that Dahl had some flying disc fragments.

, +

At this time Dahl admitted to Vogel that the entire story was false.

Relative to Arnold, Dahl and Chrisman stated that he was paid by
ry ~ fa] } ro Age ee 3 . : } s he ar
Ray Palmer of the Fantasy magazine and possibl@ the Boise Statesman to com
to Tacoma and obtain a story from them regarding the flying disc fragments.

On July 31 and August 1, a total of five anonymous calls were
received by a Tacoma Times reporter and the United Press Wireman at Tacoma
giving information regarding the meeting at the Winthrop Hotel over the disc
fragments and stating that the B-25 had been shot down or sabotaged which
killed Captain Davidson and Lieutenant Brown, inferring that this was done
because the intelligence officers were carrying disc fragments in their plane.

Dahl and Chrisman stated that these calls could only have come from
hemselves, Arnold or Smith, who, they stated, had a friend on the Chicago
Times and was possibly selling the story to the Chicago Times through this
friend. Dahl and Chrisman denied making these calls.

Smith, upon interview, stated that reporter Lantz of the Tacoma
Times and Morello of the United Press office in Tacoma had informed him that
Arnold had several anonymous calls and from the accuracy of the information
transmitted Smith believes they were made by either Dahl or Chrisman.

Federal Gireau of inuestigat

United States Arpartment of Justice

Wnaneca
Ouse
vT-

+; MNashington

18, 1947

+ “A ,1+orn
Ul LUCU
VN. = no it on
ACO LCag Limes
aqown or sadot

ie flvi

|
ey |

Y

ATTACH

can ». Le Wash: 30, 1947 and
m ng the following day i RED CRISMAN and HAROLD
is room 502, Winthrop ! acoma.Washing KENNE ARNOLD also
attend the me

UUGll

August 19, 1947

this meeting. KENNETH: / » Captain EMIL J. SMITH, FRED CRISMAN,

DAHL, Captain DAVIDSON sind Lieutenant BROWN of Army A-2 Intelligence from
Hamilton Field, California, all met in ARNOLD's: room at various times during
the afternoon and evening of July 31, 1947. and discussed the flying disc

story as. related by racy and DAHL. The Army Intelligence Officers, Captain
DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BROWN, left about 2:00 A.M. the morning of August 1,
1947 to return to Hamilton Field, California for Air Force Day in a B=-25-and
were carrying some of the reported disc fragments, The left engine on the
B-25 burned an exhaust stack which in turn caught the left wing afire, the
wing subsequently breaking off and tearing off the tail. The B-25 crashed,
killing Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BRON. However, the Crew Chief and

a hitchhiker. parachuted to safety. Intelligence Officers at McChord Field,
Washington advised there was no indication of any sabotage. The plane crashed
at Kelso, Washington approximately 2:50 A. M, August 1, 1947.

Five anonymous calls were received by a reporter, Tacoma
Times, and the United Press Wireman, Tacoma, between 11:30 A. M., July 31, 1947
and 5:30 P, M., August 2, 1947. The first call was to a Tacoma Times reporter
approximately 11:30 A. M., July 31, in which the caller stated that there was
a meeting taking place at that time in room. 502 of the Winthrop Hotel concerning
the disc fragments found on’Maury Island. The second call was received between
11:00 A. M. and 12:00 noon, August 1, 1947 by the Tacoma Times reporter in
which the caller advised that at that moment a big meeting was taking place
in ARNOLD's. room number 502, Winthrop Hotel; that the B-25 which crashed was
carrying disc. fragments and that McChord Field officials had stated it was
shot down or sabotaged. The third call was received Friday, August 1, 1947
at 5:30 P. M. by the United Press “ireman, Tacoma, in which the. caller stated
that the B-25 which crashed at Kelso, Washington was carrying flying disc
fragments and that the dead officers were Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant
4-2 Intelligence Officers at “amilton eee Pie sia This call
was prior to the release of the dead officers!’ by Army authorities and
the caller indicated that when the names were rele: aed, it-would verify the
information he was furnishing was correct.’ The foarkh phone call was received
at approximately 6:45 P. Ms Friday, August 1 by the United Press Wireman in
which call the caller stated the B-25 was definitdyshot down and. that if he
contacted Amny tatellige nee officers, they would not. deny it. The fifth phone
call was eived by the United Press Wireman, Tacoma, at 5:30-P. M. August 2,
191h,7 j iter stated the B-25 was shot down from the: air with
a 20 mem, no tha he Marine plane found’ recently on Mt. Rainier had also
been shot down and that C: SMITH ese be taken to Wright Field Tuesday
e dead Intelligence
officers which Speier: 2s given by the anonymous caller, the
Tacoma Times eed ¢ th: re August 2, 1947 and carried several articles
thereafter pias hat the B-25 had been shot down or sabotaged because of
the fact th it as carrying disc fragments, DAHL and CRIGMAN have admitted
ich they sent to RAY PALMER had no connection. with any
given a signed statement to that effect which are being

morning. © \Wher 1e¢ Army authorities released the names of "th

PJ

August 19, 1947

forwarded herein. DAHL and CRISMAN deny, however, that they actually started
the flying dise story and their actual part in the: story, . United Airlines pilot,
EMIL J, SMITH, states that DAHL and CRISMAN on July 31, 1947, both related their
original flying dise fragment story. Information gathered would indicate that
the anonymous phone calls were possibly made by FRED CRISMAN in order to build
up the flying disc story to the point where they could’ make a profitable sale

of the story to RAY PALMER; Chicago, Illinois. No facts have been developed
which would definitely prove that CRISMAN made these calls, However, from all
facts and information gathered, it appéars he is probably the most likely to
have made the anonymous calls. The detailed interviews of the persons contac-
ted in regard to this flying disc story are being set out below,

The following investigation was conducted by Special Agent
DAVID A. MacCULLOCH at Tacoma, Washington on August 6, 7, 1947:

ERNTER VOGEL, Associated Press “ireman, Tacoma, \Washington,
advised that in the early part of June, 1947 he was’ requested by the Seattle
Pact Tntelligencer to check on a story which he was informed had been obtained
from the Fire Chief at Harper, Washington. The story was supposed to have
originated with FRED CRISMAN. Mr. VOGEL stated that the story was to the effect
that DAHL, while patrolling in his boat near Maury Island, saw five or six
flying discs, one of which. fluttered toward’ the ground.and finally disintegrated.
Fragments of the disc were reported to have showered down on the boat of HAROLD
DAHL, causing some damage and killing his dog. Mr. VOGEL stated that he went
to the home of HAROLD BAHL on 3903 North Gove, Tacoma, Washington to check with
him on this flying disc story. He stated that as best he could recall, this
was just a few days after the first flying disc stories had appeared in the paper
and was on a Sunday evening. He believed it was the early part of June. He
stated that DAHL took him in the kitchen and proceeded to talk about this flying
disc story in low muffled tones. He stated that DAHL acted rather suspicious
and that shortly his wife came into the kitchen and was in a considerable rage,
telling DAHL to admit that the entire story was a plain fantasy which he had
dreamed up. He stated that after his wife told DAHL to admit the entire story
was false, that DAHL then admitted that there was nothing whatever to the story
and it was an entire hoax. VOGEL stated that in view of the enraged condition
of DAHL's wife, he immediately left and reported to thékSeattle Post Intelligencer
that. the entire story was a hoax and that they should not print it in any way,

He further ‘stated. that he advised the Seattle Post Intelligencer that DAHL was

a mental case and that nothing which he had reported should be carried as far

as a news story. Mr. VOGEL stated that since that time he had received repeated
requests from the Boise Statesman requesting information as to the flying disc
stories reportedly originating with FRED CRISMAN and HAROLD DAHL, VOGEL stated
that he had never, in his experience, had such pressure brought upon him to
release. a news story and that he repeatedly advised the Boise Statesman that

the story of seeing the flying discs by DAHL and CRISMAN was a complete fabri-

lag

ab sam

~

August. 19, 1947

cation and should be in no way, carried as a news story and refused to furnish
any information regarding these reports. He further stated that he advised
the Boise Statesman shortly before, or at the time KENNETH ARNOLD left Boise
to come to Tacoma to check on the flying disc stories with DAHL and. CRISMAN,

}

that ARNOLD should not come as the entire story was a hoax.

The following information was obtained from Pautanr,
soma, Washington, Proctor 8416, a rpporter for the Tacoma

It was the Tacoma Times pap hich first issued a story
on August.2 and-subsequent stories intimatir hat the B=-25 which crashed at
Kelso, Washington on the early morning. of August had been Se ere or shot
down because. of the fact that it carried flying ¢ fragments. LANTZ stated
that on Thursday, July 31, at approximately 1. A ‘ he received an anonymous
phone call in which the caller stated that KENNETH ARNOLD and Army Intelligence
officers were meeting in room 502 of the Winthrop Hotel to check on the eae
disc story from which fragments were obtained on Maury Island. .LANTZ stated he
turned around to speak to his* editor ‘and when he picked up-the* phone again the
line was dead. He stated that the caller asked for BURT MeMURTIE, a reporter
on the Tacoma Times who was out at the time of the call, He. stated that BURT
McMURTIE called ARNOLD at room 502 in the Winthrop Hotel and was advised by
ARNOLD: that he could furnish no information as he was there on a Government
mission. LANTZ stated that on Friday,. August 1, between 11:00 A. M. and noon,
he received another phone call for BURT MeMURTIE in which the anonymous caller
stated that he might have some information for him. LANTZ asked the caller if
he was not the same party that had called the previous date and he said yes,
The caller then related that at that moment there was a big meeting in progress
in ARNOLD's room, 502, in the Winthrop Hotels that the. B-25 which crashed that
morning in Kelso was carrying flying disc fragments from California and that
MeChord Field officials had stated the plane was sabotaged or shot down. The
caller then hung up after making some statement to the effect that he was a
switchboard operator. LANTZ stated that. he went to the Winthrop Hotel on Friday
about noon and found that there was no male operator on duty. He stated he then
went to. room 502 and ARNOLD answered the door and that Captain EMIL J. SMITH,
United Airlines pilot, was on the phone. LANTZ stated that he heard SMITH make
a statement to the effect that the information must be very strictly confidential,
He stated that there were one or two others in the room besides SMITH and ARNOLD,
but. that he could not identify them. He stated that ARNOLD told him he could
ma&e no statement and that he had attempted to check the story with various people
on Maury Island with negative results. He stated that about 3:30 P. M., Friday,
he wrote a story regarding the mysterious informant and called ARNOLD at his
hotel room, stating that he had written thigsstory and that ARNOLD had better
check it. He stated that he talked to TEDAMORRELLO, the United Press Wireman,
Tacoma, who advised that the story sounde fantastic. LANTZ stated that about
5:30 P. M., Friday, August 1, an anofiymous caller called TED MORRELLO, the

i a

August. 19, 1947

United Press Wireman, stating that Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BROWN

were the Intelligence officers that were killed in the crash of the B-25 and
that civilians and the sheriff had been kept away from the wreckage with the

my guarding it. He stated the anonymous caller then said that the names

had not been released yet by the Army and that this would verify his statements,
PAUL LANTZ stated that the following morning, Saturday, August 2, the Army
verified that the officers killed were Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant ph

nd two days later verified that they were Army Intelligence Sar a ANTZ
stated that the anonymous caller again later contacted TED MOR RELLO, cal wiae
him by that name, and at this time stated he did not call the see News
Tribune or the Associated Press and denied calling PAUL LANTZ BURT McMURTIE.
In this call the anonymous caller stated that, "Don't think It “ante this for
you." He then asked if the story had been put.on-the wire and when MORRELIO
said yes, the caller stated, "We want this to get back to: New Jersey." The
caller further stated that the B=25 was shot down by a 20 msm. cannon and that
the marine plane which was recently found wrecked on the side of Mt, Rainier,
having been missing for several months, had also been shot down. The caller
stated to MORRELLO that he should get in touch with a flyer named MORGAN with
United Airlines who, he stated, was with Captain SMITH when they were shot at
over Montana, The caller then stated, "I'll see you Tuesday. I'm’ going to
San Francisco." LANCE stated that he had checked eta Captain EMIL SMITH of
United Airlines who denied knowing any aa by the name of MORGAN; denied
ever having’ flown over Montana. LANTZ: stated that MORREILO received another

anonymous call in which the caller stabed that SMITH would be sent to Wright
Field on Tuesday and that Saturday one of the men who found fragments of the
flying disc was to be flown to Alaska. “LANTZ stated that in view of the fact
that the information as to the Intelligence: officers on the B-25 had’ been as
furnished by the anonymous caller, had subsequently been verified by the Army,

the story was released that the B-25 was carrying disc fragments returning to
Hamilton. Field, California and furnishing the inference that the plane had.been
sabotaged or shot down. LANTZ stated that. about 6:00 P, M. on Sunday, August 3,
he contacted Captain = EMIL SMITH at his home, 3027 West Laurelhurst Drive,
Seattle at which time SMITH stated he had not given any story out to the Post
Intelligencer at Seattle; stated that he had gotten a telegram to call a number
in Boise and when he called and found out it-was the Boise Statesman, he had
hung up. He stated that the Boise Statesman then contacted him, at which time
he admitted he had seen the disc fragments, but that he did not take any of
them. This time SMITH informed LANTZ that he had been with Major GEORGE
SANDERS, Public Relations Officer from McChord Field, all afternoon until about
3 21,5 P. M. SMITH informed LANTZ that he had told the Army authorities every-
thing that. he and ARNOLD knew about the flying disc fragments story from the
time that KENNETH ARNOLD left Boise, Idaho and he had left Seattle, Washington.
ace time SMITH admitted that there were some of the supposed: disc fragments
ARNOLD's room at the Winthrop Hotel and that CRISMAN and DAHL had been in
the room Thursday afternoon. On Monday PAUL LANTZ stated that he called
HAROLD DAHL who advised that if this were not used in the paper, he and FRED

sBie

August: 19, 1947

CRISMAN would see him after lunch, LANTZ stated that about noon DAHL and
CRISMAN contacted him at which time DAHL. stated that he and his son had been
exn18¥aiie a gravel pit on Maury Island and found some strange rock has in eas,

He stated they picked up some of these samples and that. FRED CRIG later
saw them and they went back over to Maury rs sland at which time additional
samples were obtained and that CRISMAN sent these to a friend of his at the
University of Chicago to have analyzed, They stated that they received a
report and that apparently this friend had asked a newpaperman to find out
where the rock formations were obtained. CRISMAN and DAHL told LANTZ that
sometime after the first. flying disc story had appeared, they received a tele-
gram from Trans-Ocean Press from Chicago wanting infommation on the flying
dise fragments. FRED CRIGMAN stated that they had at no time indicated-the
rock formations were a part of a flying disc and that Captain EMILA@mITH and
KENNETH ARNOLD were not interested in the rock formations and they denied
giving them to SMITH and ARNOLD,

ED MORRELLO, a United Press Wireman, Tacoma, Washington
furnished substantially the same information that was obtained from,PAUL LANTZ,
the Tacoma Timées.reporter, regarding the anonymous phone calls which he had
received, He stated further that the first call he: received. was on Friday,
August 1, at around 5:30 P. M.. At this time the caller stated. that the B-25
which crashed at Kelso, Washington was carrying disc fragments and that the
two officers killed were Captain DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BROWN, officers with
Army A#2 Intelligence at Hamilton Field and that the fragments were top secret
material. He stated the caller indicated that when the Army released the names
of the dead officers it would verify that the information he was furnishing was
correct. MORRELLO stated that the second call he received at’ approximately
6:45 P. M. Friday, August 1 at which time the caller’stated that the B=25 was
definitely shot down and that if he contacted Army Intelligence A=2, the man
in charge would not deny it. _MORRELLO stated he thought the man said to con-
tact Colonel GUYS, but it was found out it was. Colonel GREGG who was in charge
of Army Intelligence A=-2. The caller further stated that the Sheriff's Office
had been kept away from the crash and that no civilians had been allowed near
the plane. MORRELLO stated the third call he received at 5:30 P. M., August 2,
and that this time the caller stated that one of the men who had been conferring
with Captain SMITH and KENNETH ARNOLD was taken to Alaska that day. The caller
further stated that the B-25 was shot down from the air with a 20 mm. cannon;
that the Marine plane found recently on Mt. Rainier had also been shot down;
that Captain SMITH would be teken to Wright Field Tuesday morning and that a
United Airlines pilot by the Ay of MORGAN. flew with Gaptain SMITH when they
were shot at over Montana, ne Galler stated he was Leaving for San Francisco

nd would. be back Tuesday.

PAUL LANTZ and TED MORRELLO both stated that.they had -made
ittle effort to: question the anonymous caller to obtain his identity as
t ey

very li
they felt it was useless and that if th arted questioning him he, would

refuse to furnish a

pe Special Agent DAVID A,-MacCULLOCH
contacted in th 3ident ag y. office, Tacoma, Washington by PRED CRISMAN.

At this time GRISMAN asked if the Seattle Office was investigation the crash
of the B-25 and he was informed that no investigation was being conducted by

the Seattle Office. CHRISMAN at this time related in a rambling story that the
had picked up some strange rock formations which he had forwarded to a friend
of his in the University of Chicago to have amalyzed and that later, in some
manner unknown to him, these rock formations had been reported as being frag-
ments of a flying disc.

On August 7, 1947 FRED CRISMAN and HAROLD DAHL were inter-
viewed at the Tacoma. resident agency office. Both DAHL and CRIGMAN at first
denied any knowledge of how the rock formations which they had picked up to
have alalyzed became corinected with the flying dise stories. Both denied
making any statement to anyone that these rock formations were portions of a
disc fragment. It was apparent from the start of the interview that DAHL and
CRISMAN were not telling their complete ‘and true connection with the flying
disc. story. They refused to give any definite information as to what they said
or had done which caused them to become involved in a flying disc story, but
gave evasive answers and pevenvedly statéd that they had nothing to do with it
and were at a loss to understand how they became connected with the flying disc
story Arter considerable questioning, they stated that in the early part of
Jun they sent to RAY PALMER of the Ziff-Davis Publishing Company which published
thk6\Fantasy magazine in Chicago and the Venture magazine in Evanston, Illinois,
some rock formations which they had found on Maury Island. They stated they
sent these formations, asking PAIMER to have them analyzed. They stated that
later PAIMER wrote and asked for more samples, advising he had failed to analyze
the samples, CRISMAN and DAHL stated they have never sent any additional samples
and that the next they heard regarding the rock -formations which they had sent
PALMER was when he called HAROLD DAHL and asked if the rock formations could
have come from a flying disc. DAHL stated. he made some remark that they possibly
could have come from a flying disc and that he immediately sat down and wrote
a letter to PALMER, which was in the latter part of June in which he stated
the material could have been portions of a flying disc. ‘DAHL claimed that he
thought he told PALMER over the phone something about being in his boat when
he obtained these rock formations, but stated he could not recall what he had
written to PALMER and claimed that he passed the whole thing off as a joke,
CRISMAN and DAHL were questioned at length in an attempt to obtain specific
information as to exactly what each one had done with regard to the rock forma-
tions. However, éach stated that the only thing they had done was tell RAY PAIMER
the formations could have come from a flying disc in view of the fact it appeared
"that's what he wanted them to say", No definite information could be obtained

from either DAHL or CRISMAN as to what each specifically had done to start the
flying dise story.

The signed statement which was obtained from CRISMAN and

6A

August 19, 1947

DAHL and in-which they admitted the rock formations had no connection with
any flying discs is being forwarded to the Bureau herewith. The statement
contains no information of value and therefore is’not being set forth herein.

Regarding the meeting which was nerd in the Winthrop Hotel
on Thursday, July 31, CRISMAN and DAHL stated that they both met KENNETH ARNOLD
there about 1:00 P. M. They stated that they all left ARNOLD's room about
3:00 P. M. and that CRISMAN took ARNOLD to Berry's Airport at Tacoma and
ARNOLD flew his plane.to Seattle where he ‘picked up Captain EMIL SMITH, ORIS-~
MAN stated that he picked up ARNOLD and SMITH at Berry's Airport about 5;00
P, M. and that HAROLD DAHL came to ARNOLD's room about 7:00 P. M. °CRISMAN
stated that he and SMITH left about $:30-P. M. when he drove SMITH to. Seattle
to get his car and that DAHL went home at this time. CRISMAN stated they
returned about 11:30 P. M. at which time the Army Intelligence officers were
in ARNOLD's room and that CRISMAN left about midnight. He stated that he
returned to ARNOLD's room Friday afternoon for approximately one-half hour
from 2:30 to 3:00 P. Ms at which time ARNOLD and SMITH were still there and
neither seemed to be able to recall if DAHL was in ARNOLD's: room on Friday,
August 1, The best that could be obtained from CRISMAN and DAHL as to what
took place in ARNOLD's room was to the effect that most ofthe talk was about
flying, that no one seemed very i sted in the rock.formations and that
they had no connection as far’as they knew with any flying disc. CRISMAN
Stated that KENNETH ARNOLD wanted to obtain pictures of the place where the

rock formations were obtained and that the Army Intelligence: officers did not

appear to be interested in any manner whatever.

HAROLD DAHL operates the Commercial Lumber Company at 235

illwater Avenue, Tacoma, Washington and FRED. CRISMAN has recently been - _~
working with him buying timber. They have also been associated with the\Harbor
Patrol Association at Tacoma, Washingtom which furnishes patrol.and polite pro-
tection to parts of the harbor area which are not patrolled by Tacoma police

or Sheriff's officers, FRED CRISMAN resides at 125 Woodland, Tacoma, Washington,
Amy serial number 0-758-951. During the war he was a’ pilot and it is believed
presently holds a. Reserve Officer's commission as a Captain.

Regarding the B=25.which crashed, killing aptain DAVIDSON
and Lieutenant BROWN of the jth Aire Forces, Captain ROB ERT Gy eenen A=2
Officer, Mc Chord Field, advised that this. investigation of the crash reflected
an exhaust stack had burned out on the left engine which in turn caught the
left wing afire and that when the left wing broke off, it also broke off the

tail. The plane at the time of the crash was carrying Captain DAVIDSON,
Lieutenant BROWN, the hitch-hiker and a man as Crew. Chief to take care of the
airplane. The Crew Chief and the hitch-hiker parachuted to safety, but Captain
DAVIDSON and Lieutenant BROWN were killed. He stated that their investigation
reflected no indication of any sabotage whatever.

A check of the records of the Winthrop Hotel at Tacoma,
Washington revealed that KENNETH ARNOLD; giving his address as Route #1, Mount-

view Drive, Boise, Idaho rented room 502 from July 30 at 7:43 P.M. until

oe ae

August 19, 1947

August 3, A record of the*pl alis,made from room 502 during this period
was made by Miss SARA oF This record reveals that KENNETH ARNOLD on
July 31 called PALMER at AN-5200,. Evanston, Illinois, collect. On the same
date called Lieutenant BROWN at 5800 Hamilton Field, California, collect,
ARNOLD also called.0109-J in Boise, Idaho on July 31. On August 1 ARNOLD called
LON-1,936, Portland; PALMER at Dearborn 5200, Chicago; and: SMITH called RODDY

Dearborn 2323 at Chicago. Both Chicago calls were collect. The remainder
of the. calls < so to be personal calls and are not being set out. A record
of the phone c made are being retained as an exhibit in the Seattle Office,

following information was obtained by Special Agent
H. LEVEC in interview on August 12, 1947 with Captain EAMIL J. SMITH,
West Laurehurst Drive, United Airlines pilot: It should be noted tha t
SMITH has previously received publicity for having supposedly seen
discs or sre 2 objects on July 4, last while on a routine | ai Air-
ight out of ise, Idaho in.company with his co-pilot RALPHTST! is,
concerning this 1iadaabe. Captain SMITH states that they took off from Boise,
Idaho at 8:12 P. M.-and headed Northwest at 300 degrees end while still climbing
at 8,000 feet, co-pilot STEVENS called his attention to some objects in the
sky ahead of them about ten degrees left which neither one could identify
ITH states that he ca eh a CAA radio operator at Ontario, Oregon and reques-
ted him to step outside his radio s} c and see if he'could see any of these

my

objects overhead. The CAA radio operator replied in the negative.
Captain palit states oy he, first, met. KENNETH ARNOLD on
July 5 in the offices of rhe S Post abe eqcer. where both were being
interviewed concerning their sighting of f argos iscs. SMITH states that he
next met A NOLD about three weeks a in Boise, Idaho at which time he, SMITH,
was on another flight through Bois Ldaho and had a ten minute 1 over there.
On this occasion ARO j
Lieutenant FRANK. MgeBROWN ) g of: reporter JOHNSON
of the| Boise Statesman. SMITH's nex a with ARNOLD was on. Thursday,
RNOLD calling from Tacoma
M0 come over to Tacoma and
"someone back East"
ted in ing.
and ARNOLD told
Boeing Airport at 4:00 P. M.

at Tacoma, Washington where they were met by Fi
proceeded in CRISMAN's car to t finthrop Hotel
something to eat
DAHL and. invited

Pan

from ser wed that

mL

ds of the Army. ITH, stated that a. couple
iS at McChord Field and asked him if there
recent information ‘concerning the incident. SMITH states that Major
that CRISHAN I not. yet. been contacted, but that the
"setting a trap for*him". SMITH further
i147, he appeared before Lawyer JOHN NOLAN
and made a deposition of the facts relating

incidents in Tacoma from Thursday afternoon, July 31, last until Sunday
notes August 3,

copy of this deposition is now in possession of the writer
and is being forwarded herewith.to the Bu It should be noted that this
deposition is in no way as GERDAS EO as the sta oer taken by the writer above
and any setting out of this d i in thi unication would be superfluous.

Copies thi mn ication are being sent to the Butte,
Francisco and Chicago Offices for their information only. Unless
Bureau to the contrary, instant investigation is considered closed

the information of the Bureau, Captain -R. G,. BJORNING,
Intelligence Officer, McChord Field, Ft. Lewis, Washington advised at the weekly

Fa

O.N.1I.-S.1.D.-F.B.I. Intelligence conference that the Pubiic Relations Officer

at McChord Field. had received a telephone call from an individual at Army Air

which call the Public Relations
Officer was requested to obtain a signed statement from DAHL and CRISMAN which
could be published and thus publicly close the matter. Captain BJORNING further
related that he had no additional information in this matter and that he did

not handle it.

Forces Headquarters at Washington, D. C., during

Very truly yours,

aT it AGT
ENCL

DAM ;PHL sMEK
100-18945
CC - Butte
Portland
San Francisco

Chicago

POY Udon’

and

~ + ~

suv Yo aad

Maury Islan

RAY PALMER

Around _th later
PALMER contac

+ha frac
L! LIC

could

uld

Trans Ocean Press sdueren4
disc @ragmen We told them t
The next we heard of ft}

KENNETH ARNOLD to me - W

we

when
bout
e matter.

alled by
on Duly 31,1947

STATE OF WASHINGTON )
38

COUNTY OF KING

J. E. SMITH, being first duly sworn, on oath, deposes
and says:

This is a narrative statement as to what took place in
Tacoma from Thursday, July 31 until Sunday, August 3.

Thursday I received a telephone call from Tacoma from a
Kenneth Arnold. The gist of this conversation was that he thought
it would be a good idea for me to come to Tacomg and listen to the
story of two men whose names were Fred Crismon and Harold Dahl,
This Kenneth Arnold I had met two times previous -- once on July 5
at the office of the P.I. in Seattle for a very brief time and the
y= time in Boise, Idaho when I was passing through on one of
my trips.

In this conversation with Arnold on the phone, I made the
statement that it would be impossible for me to go over to Tacoma
due to my going out to Salt Lake City the next morning. He said
that he would fly over from Tacoma and pick me up at Boeing Field.
I agreed to this proposition from Arnold. At 4o*clock I met
Arnold at the Boe Field and we flew back and landed at Barry*s
Airport. We were picked up at the airport by Fred Crismon, who
drove the two of us into the Winthrop Hotel. We went up to Room
502 -~ Crismon, Arnold and myself.

Fred Crismon put a telephone call into Harold Dahl and
asked him would he come up to the room. A half hour later Harold
Dahl made his appearance. At this time there were four men in the
room -- Crismon, Dahl, Arnold, and myself. Mr. Arnold asked Mr.
Dehli to relate his story as to what took place on June 24. Mr.

Dahl was very hesitant about telling the story to me. Arnold and

Mr. Crismon were already aware of the statements that Dahl had made
previous. Mr. Dahl made the statement to me that if any statements
he would make relative to his story, if I would keep it confidential
for two weeks, that he felt definitely that I would want to forget
the whole thing. I made the statement to Mr. Dahl that as far as I
was concerned, I would keep any statements he made to me confidential
for at least two weeks.

Here is Dahl's story: On June 24 (this date to be checked
later) he was in a boat owned by Fred Crismon, who owns the Harbor
Patrol in Tacoma. They -~ Mr. Dahl, a Mr. Knight, and Mr. Dahl's
son age 16, were cruising around Maury Island looking for logs that
had broken away from booms. They were fairly close to shore of
Maury Island when they saw four or five objects in the sky at an
altitude of approximately 1500 feet. He said these objects were

Page #2

100 feet in diameter, circular in shape, and it appeared that
there was a hole in the center of each as he could see the sky
through this hole. He also mentioned that on the inside of the
circle or the hole, that portholes were visible. Their speed was
neglizible as they appeared to hover over a given spote One of
these objects appeared to be in trouble. Another object came
over and appeared to make contact. After making this contact for
approximately two minutes, it rose to its original position.

At this time the object that appeared to be in trouble
seemed to throw a lot of debris from one of the portholes. These
objects then disappeared from view. Some of this debris that
landed broke in the wheelhouse of the boat, the spotlight, and
the kkeaxons While this debris was falling, my boy and Mr. Knight
got off the boat and hid under some logs. This debris that fell
killed our dog and a sea gull. I asked Mr. Dahl what was done with
the doge He made the statement they threw the dog into the water.

This story was told to Mr. Crismon, who the next day
went out to this Island to check on this story. He verified the
fact of the damage to the boat, also to the fact that there appeared
to be quite a few pieces of either rock or metal on the shore. Mr.
Crismon also stated that while he was over there investigating on
Maury Island, he also saw a disk. This disk was of the same shape

and contour as the objects explained by Mr. Dahl.

At this point Mr. Arnold clarified for me as to the reasons
he was investigating this story. Mr. Arnold stated that he received
a letter from a Mr. Raymond Palmer, supposedly editor of the Venture
Press, Evanston, Illinois. The gist of this letter was that Mr.
Palmer received a letter from Mr. Dahl and Mr. Crismon, also @
package of these fragments that were found on Maury Island. Mr.
Palmer also made the statement in the letter that the Chicago
University failed to analyze these fragments and that would Mr. Arnold
please investigate the story. Mr. Arnold was sent a Western Union
check for $200.00 to take care of any expense that he might incur
while making this investigation.

Mr. Arnold had made a telephone call to Hamilton Field to
contact a Captain Davidson and a Lieutenant Brown, who were with
A-2 Intelligence at Hamilton Field, asking them would they make a
trip to Tacoma to also listen to this story of Dahl and Crismon.
When Mr. Arnold acquainted me with the fact thet he had made this
phone call in front of Mr. Dahl, Mr. Dahl made the statement that
he would not tell this story to anybody in Army Intelligence. I
made the statement to Mr. Dahl that if he felt this way, that he
should not be in the room when these two Intelligence officers
arrived. Mr. Dahl thought this was an excellent idea.

Page #3

Mr. Dahl, Mr. Crismon, and myself left the hotel room to
go downstairs as Mr. Crismon wanted to get some metal that was in
the back of his car that he had picked up on Maury Island, to
bring back to the hotel room. Mr. Harold Dahl departed.

At this time I made the statement to Mr. Crismon that I
should like to pick up my car in Seattle. Mr. Crismon drove me to
Boeing Field, Seattle. After leaving me at Boeing Field, he drove
back to Tacoma and I drove my own car back to Tacoma. After I had
put my car in the garage at Tacoma, I went up to the Winthrop Hotel
and in the room at that time was Mr. Arnold, Mr. Crismon, and Captain
Davidson from Army Intelligences Lieutenant Brown was downstairs
getting sandwiches and coffee. When Lieut. Brown came back, the
stories were again related and Lieut. Brown made a statement that
all the facts of these stories would be held in strictest confidence
until released by Mr. Dahl.

After Mr. Crismon had told all the facts, relating not
only his own story but that of Mr. Dahl, he asked for the opinion
of both officers as to what they thought. Lieut. Brown made the
statement that he would like to obtain some of these fragments to
take back to Hamilton Field.

At this time Capt. Davidson and Lieut. Brown were debating
the thought as to whether to stay over night in Tacoma or leave for
Hamilton Field immediately, as the B-25 they were flying was
supposed to be at Hamilton Field the next day for the Air Show.

The five of us then left the hotel room and went down to
the hotel lobby where Mr. Brown made a telephone call to McChord
Field asking them to send a driver to pick up Capt. Davidson and
himself. Lieut. Brown came up to me and made the statement that he
and Capt. Davidson were going back to Hamilton Field and that he
would get in touch with me tomorrow and if after I had seen the
fragments on Maury Island, if I thought in my own mind that this
was authentic, they would immediately leave Hamilton Field and
return. I was to hold this statement by Lieut. Brown in the
strictest of confidence from the other group of three (Dahl, Crismon,
and Arnold).

We then went down to the street where Mr. Crismon drove his
car up in front and took out a box of fragments and gave this box to
Davidson and Brown. While waiting for the driver from McChord Field,
Lieut. Brown and I discussed Pacific operations and things not pere
tai to this mission. Capt. Davidson and Lieut. Brown departed at
app tely 12:45 AeMe Mr. Arnold and I went back to our hotel
room after having a midnight snack.

Page #4

Friday the lst: At approximately & o'clock in the
morning, Mr. Crismon called up our hotel room and acquainted us
with the fact that the B-25 had crashed. Also that he had called
McChord Field and from information he received also verified the
fact that the two men in the ship were Capt. Davidson and Lieut.
Brown, plus a flight engineer and a hitech-hiker. This left both
Mr. Arnold and myself in a very bad state of concern. Approximate-
ly an hour later Mr. Crismon and Mr. Dahl made their appearance in
the hotel room. I still wasn't sure that this was the same B-25
that the two Intelligence officers had left in last night. Mr.
Crismon then again called McChord Field and talked to a Colonel
Gregg and the fact was verified again that the two pilots were
Davidson and Browne

After an hour or so Mr. Crismon and Mr. Dahl left the
hotel room with a plan in mind of the four of us meeting the next
morning (Saturday) for breakfast and going out to Maury Island.

That evening (Friday) there was a message for me to call
this particular telephone number that was on the message. I called
this number and was asked by the party to please call them from a
paystation. This party was a Mr. Lantz, a reporter on the Tacoma
Times. He told me, "I most certainly am doing myself out of a good
story but I thought you ought to know that somebody has been calling
this paper and giving us a blow-by-blow description of all that has
taken place in your room since you arrived." To verify this, Mr.
Lantz repeated back to me discussions that I felt had only been
taking place in our room.

Mre Lantz also made the statement that there was a leak
either from the switchboard operator or our room had been tapped.
I asked Mr. Lantz why he was tipping us off with this information.
He made the statement that he didn't mind doing this if in return
that any information that I may let out would be given to him.
After this conversation with Mr. Lantz I went back to our room and
told Mr. Arnold. what took place on the telephone.

Saturday morning: Mr. Arnold and I met Mr. Dahl and
Fred Crismon for breakfast. We then drove out to the boat to go
to the island. The boat was unserviceable at the time so we went
back to the hotel. Mr. Crismon said that he would call later on
in the day and let us know when the boat would be repaired. That
was the last time I saw Mr. Crismon.

Approximately 11 o'clock Saturday morning Mr. Crismon
phoned me and made the statement it would be impossible for him to
keep this appointment with mee We were cut off by the switchboard
operator as this was classified as not an emergency call. The
reason we were cut off was due to a strike in all the Tacoma hotels.

Page #5

Mr. Lantz called up and said if I would call him at
8:30 that evening, he would have some additional information for
me. I called Mr. Lantz at 8:30 that evening. He told me that
this anonymous caller had again called a Mr. Marillo of the
United Press and said that one of the parties that Mr. Arnold and
I had come down to see was flown to Alaska. Also he mde the state-
ment Mr. Smith would be called to Wright Field Tuesday. This
anonymous caller made the statement to Mr. Marillo that this B-25
was shot down. Mr. Marillo asked this person calling what his
interest was. This anonymous caller made a statement - "Don't think
I am doing it for the newspapers. All I am interested in is seeing
that this information gets back, to New Jersey."

After I finished the conversation with Mr. Lantz, I went
over to the United Press and talked with Mr. Marillo and had him
read back to me the conversations that he had had with this
anonymous caller. But no opinions at this time were voiced either
by me or Mr. Marillo.

Sunday morning I called a Major Sander of S-2 McChord
Field and asked him to meet me at the Winthrop Hotel at 11 o*clock.
I met this Major Sander at 11 o'clock and we drove to a small coffee
shop on the Tacoma Highway where this complete story was related to
him by mes. We then drove back to the Winthrop Hotel where Major
Sander was introduced to Mr. Arnold by me and again listened to
Mr. Arnold's story. Mr. Arnold and I departed from the Winthrop
Hotel Sunday afternoon at approximately 4:30.

This is to certify that the foregoing statement was taken
before me, a notary public; that prior to making said statement, the
witness was first sworn to tell the whole truth and nothing but the
truth; that the statement was then reduced to writing and signed by
me on the day of August, 1947~-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and official
seal the day and year last above written.

Notary Public in and tor the State
of Washington, vedidine at Seattle.

a F
* ~~ STANDARD FoRM No. 64 * pe a *
. -
t a %

Office’ Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ~~~

RO > » Director, FBI = AIR MAIL DATE: August 26, 1947

FROM ; SAC, San Francisco

SUBJECT: ‘REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS
There are being transmitted herewith to the Bureau photostatic copies

~of three reports received from Lieutenant Colonel DONALD-@PRINGER, A-2, Fourth

Air Force, Hamilton Field, California, involving reported sightings of flying,

Giscs. tt

4
The Los Angeles Office is being furnished with a photostatic copy of f
the report of Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER dated August 18, 1947 concerning the
investigation conducted at the Muroc Flight Test Base, Muroc, California.

The Butte Office is being furnished with a photostatic copy of the
“report of Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER dated August 20, 1947 which sets forth a
letter received from Mr. R. JeMADDEN, Division Plant Engineer, Pacific Telephone
and Telegraph Company, Helena, Montana.

This office is maintaining contact with Lieutenant Colonel SPRINGER
and will furnish the Bureau with a subsequent report from him concerning the ob-
servations of Mre RAY A.»SWITZER, Sacramento, California, who has reported
certain observations which he believes may involve a flying disc at Placerville,
California, on August 14, 1947.

HMK :EMB

Enclosures - 3

cc Los Angeles (with enclosure)
Butte (with enclosure)

RE tle, peel a

AITTMAMATVT A
(“t> NEL 144 = 8

i
LJiviv L

a
shee

*

UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT
4AF-1208-I
20 August 1947

.
\

¢
See ee

MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE:

1. On 20 August 1947, this agent and Special Agent Hubbard
interviewed Mr. Ray A. Switser, Insurance Adjustor, at his home, 3431
David Way, Sacramento, California, and he stated in substence: On the
afternoon of 14 August 1947, he was driving his automobile from Placer-
ville, California, on the Cedar Ravine Road. Mr. Switser's wife was in
the front seat of the automébile and Mrs. Switser’s mother and the two
Switzer children were in the back seat of the car. At about 1600 hours
they were at a point approximately five miles southwest from Placerville
when Switzer saw a white smoke trail out of the corner of his eyes In
searching for a rocket ship (P80) he saw an object, four to six feet in
length, ten to fourteen inches wide, and of a metal color, bright like
highly polished chromium. In relation to the travel of the automobile
the object was first seen at 10350, and when the object . reached a
point at approximately 1200, it was engulfed in a puff of dark gray smoke —
about ten feet in diameter. The object was traveling at a terrific rate
of speed and seemed to be in a very shallow dive. When the puff of smoke
appeared, the object disappeared completély and there were no particles

ae ah ee ee eS

seen to have fallen from the smoke. The point where the object was en-

guifed in the smoke was about eight hundred yards distant (in front of)

Switzer with no possibility of the object being hidden from view by vege- »
tation or terrain. The object appeared rectanguler in shape for —

one very short period of time it appeared to have a top surface - was

very slightly curved. Mr. Switzer turned to tell his wife about the

object and found her with her mouth open in an effort to say something

and with her hand in a pointing gesture toward where the object had dis- :

appeared. The object was not very high in relation to the terrain and 4
seemed to be following the contour of a canyon. a. ee

2. In @ separate interview Mre. Switzer concurred in the informa on
obtained from Mr. Switser with the following exceptions: The smoke ri -
and the puff thet engulfed the object appeared dark pray in color and there
was no change in the color, Mrs. Switser estimated the object to be about =
five feet long and about a foot wide with the top surface being slightly ~~
curved. The object appeared to be some larger in front than in the rear,

»

AGENT'S NOTES: At the time this object was seen, the sun was to the Switser's —
back, the sky was clear and the object gave off a very bright reflection,
Mr. Switzer has been connected with the field of insurance investigation for
the last eighteen years and appears to be a man not desirous of publicity. — ‘i
The other passengers of the car did not see the object. Mre Switzer is in 1
the process of moving to a ranch near Placerville, Calif.s, and his new.address 2
will be Box 45, Aukum, Eldorado County, Calif. eae re been mide
to meet Mr. Switzer at 1400, 26 Aug 47 at Raffeld” » Placerville,
for the purpose of coing back over Cedar Ravirje Road tAURRb ey point |
where the object disappeared. a

Bryden E. Moon, Special Agent, 4AF CIC TAN FRAWCIEC!
COX\NT ONT TIA ET Ape e-:

WSIS 2 see ee

r ‘
ie ne a. J FORM NO. 64 é s

bg. Office ve ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO DATE: 9-15-47
JM vx0%
y=
SUBJECT:

is made to my letter dated August 26, 1947. Enclosed

dJated September 9, 1947 from Lt. Colonel DONALD L. SPRINGER
of A2, with @ memorandum prepared by BRYDEN E, MOON, 4th Air Force CIC on
August 20, 1947 and August 26, 1947. The memorandum contains information

SWIM IR

regarding observations < AY A, SWITZER of Sacramento, California.
Also enclosed is Lett xt September 10, 1947 from Colonel
INGER with attachment da pter 1947

For the information of the Bureau, KENNETH ARNOLD of Boise, Idaho
who has been repeatedly interviewed in this matter by A2, has expressed his
intention to Ag of selling for publicatic is detailed account of his
investigation of flying discs,

62-2938

DWK,.

RECORDED

EX-64

:

Ps FBI BUTTE B-15-47 5-50 PM vew

Uy _pfREcTOR, FBI URGENT |

Or.yINe Discs. ON INSTANT BM@BAMMEX DATE, AL Ws HAWKINS, —
COMMISSIONER AND EX SHERIFF, TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, AND gammy J. He

BROWN, IDAHO STATE WAREHOUSE INSPECTOR, SAME COMMUNITY, ADVISED
THAT ON WEDNESDAY MORNING, AUGUST THIRTEEN LAST, AT APPROXIMATELY
NINE THIRTY AM WHILE FISHING IN RIVER APPROXIMATELY FORTY MILES
SOUTHWEST OF TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, IN ISOLATED COUNTRY, THEY SAW

TWO OBJECTS FLYING THROUGH AIR AT GREAT HEIGHT, WHICH APPREXKX
APPEARED TO BE DISCS, AND AT SAME TIME HEARD ROAR SIMILAR TO NOISE
CREATED BY MOTOR TRUCK. INFORMANTS ADVISED OBJECTS MOVING VERY
RAPIDLY AND ‘BaaeeNX THAT THEY EACH APPEARED TO BE APPROXIMATELY SIX
FEET IN DIAMETER, OBJECTS QUICKLY DISAPPEARED FROM SIGHT AND HAVE
NOT BEEN SEEN SINCE . NO FURTHER DESCRIRTION THESE OBJECTS PRESENTLY
AVAILABLE. FURTHER INVESTIGATION pyfind conpucTED BY THIS DIVISION
PURSUANT TO BUREAU BULLETIN cai TWO, SUB DIVISION B, DATED

JULY THIRTY NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN. BUREAU WILL BE PROMPTLY INFORMED
OF ALL PERTINENT DEVELGOMENT

BANISTER)
v

i

J
‘ p

a)
HOLD PLS 627
7-54 PM OK FBI WA BW

STANDARD FORM NO, 64 ?

|
Office Menivr wndum ° UNITED Si... GOVERNMENT

TO =: DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: August 28, 1947

E

Ss

ae i “
OM : SAC, SAN FRANCISCO Moc (\ \
ECT: REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS
ATTENTION: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR D. M, LADD

On August 27, 1947, Lt. Colonel DONALD SPRINGER, A-2, Fourth Air
Force, Hamilton Field, California, advised that the Area Intelligence Require-
ments Division Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2 Headquarters, re-
quested that one WILLIAM*RHOADS of Phoenix, Arizona, be completely inter-
viewed in connection with a report that he had seen on July 7, 1947, what
he believed were flying discs. RHOADS is supposed to have taken several pic-
tures of the discs with a 620 Box Camera,

A previous report of this reported sighting of flying discs was
forwarded the Bureau on August 8, 1947.

Colonel SPRINGER has advised that GEORGE F. FUGATE, Jr., an
intelligence agent of A-2 stationed at Long B ach, California, would arrive
in Phoenix, Arizona, on or about September 2,°1947, and would be instructed
to contact the Phoenix Field Division Office.

In accordance with Bureau Bulletin No. 42, Series 1947, it is
felt that an agent from the Phoenix Field Division should interview WILLIAM
RHOADS at 4333 North 14th Street, Phoenix, if RHOADS has not already been
interviewed. Colonel SPRINGER indicated that Mr. FUGATE should, if possible,
sit in on this interview,

A copy of the report from A-2 dated August 4, 1947, along with three
photographic prints of the pictures allegedly taken by Mr. RHOADS, is being
enclosed for the Phoenix Field Division,

WWR/ jo
62-2938
2 ce Phoenix (Encl.) (AMSD)

ATRMATL SPECIAL DELIVERY

VENTURE PRESS

305 STUDIO BUILDING
1718 SHERMAN AVENUE
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS
Augst 5, 1947

Mr. Kenneth Arnold,
Box 387,
Boise, Idaho

Dear Mr. Arnold:

It seems that Mr. Maurice Roddy of the Chicago Times got the
story from Mr. Smith, because he called me, told me he was
running it. I knew only what you'd told me over the phone.
Now, it seems the newspapers are pestering the very devil out
of all you fellowse Crisman wired me for instructions, and I
told him to say nothing ta the newspapers, because he'll look
Silly if the army explains this as "meteors" or something like
that.

I don't blame you for being alarmed, but I trust you've had no
trouble in your flying since then. Let's get that straight--
there's no horrible plot infolved. It's probably true that the
two men killed were just aecidents. It could be true that it
was not an accident, but I don't think there was any connection
with the disks, or anything of that nature, nor is the material
from Murray Island to blame.

Certainly I don't think you'd suffer from completing your report
on your mission, and sending me your affidavit. Also, you'll
have some money coming for that, and no sense to tossing thet out
of the window. It is unfortunate that the thing seemed so big
you had to call in army intelligence, but it will take them a
long time +o proceed to the point @'ve reached iuthis disk my story.
You s@@, you aren't the first to see then. They've been known
for nearly forty years, and I have emple proof of that. But

your experience was the first real break toward a solution. I'd
hate to have you drop the matter when all remaining to do is to
file your report with me.

Crisman is willing to contribute his share. I hope you will too,
This thing must not be hushed up and forgotten. It's much too
importent to the people of America, if not the world. And no
censorship of the matter is legal. You needn't feer that angle.
You certainly did a bang-up job of investigation, also you wrote
one of the best articles about your June 24 experience I've ever
seen. Please do the same on this last business. You Gwe it to
those two men tho were killed.

I'd also like to know what developed on those pictures you took

of those "dicks", or whatever they weree

In short, I'd like to have you continue to weep in contact
with me, and relay to me anything further you learn.

In turn, I'll give you the whole story, which I'm just about
ready to break (not in the newsparers). And if it was as
Cangerous as you seem to suspect, I'm efraid I'd have been
a corpse long agoé

But, and this is all you need remember, those disks are not
red corpascles in your eyeball, and they are not something
we can forget about with an ostrich in the sand attitude.
we've got to solve them, public hysteria or no. As for that
hysteria, if laughing is hysteria, that's all the hysteria
I've noticed’

By all means, I want to thank you for the work you've done.
You know your business, and you handled it like e major.
But I'm hoping you do the easy part now and get that report
on paper.

A check for your June 24 article is going out to you.

Sincerely yours,

Ci behu/

R. Ae Palmer

VENTURE PRESS

305 STUDIO BUILDING
1718 SHERMAN AVENUE
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS

June 26, 1947

Mr. Kenneth Arnold,
Boise, Idaho

Dear Mr. Arnold:

I have just read an account in the Chicago Tribume concerning
an aerial train composed of at least 9 units shaped like a
pie-plate and silvery in color, traveling at 1200 m.p.h. near
Mount Ranier, as witnessed by you while flying in the vicinity.

This is quite important to me, because I have in my possession
numerous independent confirmations of what you saw, although none
in as great detail as your account. I am interested in publishing
an article in our magazine, written from a personal account by
yourself, and accompanied by pix of yourself, plane, and rough
sketches by yourself, of what you saw.

if you care to do this for me, I am prepared to pay our usual
rates of 2¢ perword, plus $5.00 for each photograph you can
provide, or for each sketch which can be used by our art staff
to illustrate the article.

Included in this material, we'd like a short biographical
sketch of yourself as "author background" material. The
article would appear under your by-line.

If you are not interested, I wuld at least appreciate a
letter from you, confirming the newspaper story.

Very truly yours, 45

Raymond A. Palmer
Editor, The Venture Press

In your reply, please use airmail.

FBI SEATTLE 8-14-47 = 18 PM -—hisf

i DT 7 t AIT : S Lyf TSA, l .
_DIRECTOR FBI ROUTINE (4) [ 6: ¥

BRUCE ARMSTRONG. .M. AeYNICHOLS. FLYING DISCS INTERNAL ieee a
ij?
//

NEWSPAPER SEATTLE POST INTELLIGENCER CARRIED ARTICLE ON AUGUST

TWELVE OF REPORT OF FLYING DISCS SEEN BY ONE BRUCE ARMSTRONG OF
BOEING AIRCRAFT COMPANY, AND M. Aw NICHOLS, ONE ONE TWO FIVE, SOUTH
WEST ONE HUNDRED AND SECOND STREET, SEATTLE. INVESTIGATION OF :
SIGHTING BY ARMSTRONG REVEALS OBJECT TO HAVE BEEN PIECE OF UGMMBURN'T ,
PAPER WHICH HAD BEEN SEEN BY CONTROL TOWER AT BOEING FIELD. IN-

|) VESTIGATION O8 SIGHTING BY Me. Aw NICHOLS INDICATES OBJECT WAS

A WEATHER BALLON. LETTER TO FOLLOW. \ |
WILGOX

my
cet

A.AND H_PLS 75 — [4 ZB =

J
us

S-iS PM OK FBI WASH

EPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG @ 1947

TELETYPE

WASHINGTON 17 FRO
_BIRECTOR FBI URGENT

“¥LYING OBJECT REPORTED OVER PHILA NI

AUGUST SIX,

NQUIREF

TAT Mar rar

NOCZRNING

CHIST GTX TOPTV crurn
AUG So oS BR run gi SEVEN
a

INTERVIEWED BY PHILA. OFFICE, AND
FORTY FI

ECT WAS OBSERVED

TMHIATIC A RIT) com DP MODPR oUrt
LHUUSANI B, —@ MORE OVE

ppNdoOCTT ] TDOM CAOMTUNTCTrDT Vv
PR JCEEDING FROM OU TH i Y

Wiew i Lis 1

OR BUZZING sof

IT OPLE ARCTDy Ur
4 he VS Led OBSE] eVIN IG ii

NCLUDE A FRRusee FORMER

ABOVE MENTIONED

NCE THE ACCOMPANYING SOUND WA

ivi vi

ANTS Ur FSoOT KY AROUF ORITCT
NES. HE ESTIMATED | OBJECT

EX-4]

PAGE TWO

ABOUT FOUR HUNDRED TO FIVE HUNDRED MILES

MADE BY ARMY AND NAVY INTELLIGENCE FOR

OF THE PHILA. OFFICE TO DETERMINE IF

EITHER
& blade

ANY EXPERIMENTAL WORK ON NEW TYPES

THEY WILL

ADVISE PHILA.

OFFICE IN

NT Y
NEXT

DETAILS WILL FOLLOW.

BOARDMAN

wrt f/f
HILA a

OF PLANES

ON
OR
IN VICI
Se

INQUIRIES BEING

THE REQUEST

NAVY ARE DOING

NITY OF PHILA.

LETTER OF

* Office ie ° Seiten STAisz. OVERNMENT

65=480
{ i TO : ) \Digpetor FBI : August 20, 1947
2 ») =
FROM SAC Butte

~. susfact: “"rLyrNG DIScs FZ
F

Refer teletype to the Bureau dated August 15, 1947, / rs
-—/
Enclosed please find the newspaper account carried by the Twin Falls, (
io "Times News" on August 15, together with a sheet of paper on which As Co Ms
X&E. attempted to sketch his impressions of the instrument which he claims to
have seen.

ut

Concerning URIE'ts sketches, it may be noted that he believed the
rolled outer edge which he attempted to create in his drawing to have been about
a foot through. URIE likewise believed that the tubing or exhaust flame which
he and his sons claim to have seen was about a foot through and extended at
least to the back end of the device, The flame did not appear to taper off nor
to widen out toward the back,

BILLY and stated that they could see a knot on the side of
the device fram which the ‘flames were shooting, and that they could see day-
light between the exhaust flame and the side of the device, The flames did not
leave any smoke or odor.

The URIE boys thought that the "side view" sketch should show that
) the device was more sharply angled from bottom to top, while URIE himself
| thatiahtt that it was more streamlined and curved. URIE said that ~~ instru-
ment came to a pointed or rounded top. MARAE ORpTy

In his notations, URIE mistakenly said tht he had seen it on Thurs-
daye During interview, he stated that it actually had been on Wednesday,
A August 13, 1947, when he and his sons saw the contrivance about 1:00 P. Me

URIE explained that he had sent his boys to the river to get some
rope from his boat. When he thought they were overdue, he went outside his
tool shed to look for them, He noticed them about 300 feet away looking in
the sky and he glanced up to see what he called the flying disc, He said he
could only see it for a moment before it disappeared behind a hill which f?
obscured his view. : LA.

URIE further stated that the contrivance was about seventy-five
feet in the air. URIE resides in the depths of the Snake River Canyon, which
is about four hundred feet deep and twelve hundred feet across at that place.
According to his account, the contrivance was about three hundred feet below

ee he saw it against the steep walls of the canyon on

its color as sky blue and stated that he doubted
if it vould ye t the sky. He likewise said that it was purely by
3

did not spin like a to “Dp ;
P Recs ee Bar [ts

INDEXED

Ry

oy 5

6 : -
BT 65-480 gy

As the machine went by the URIE place, the trees over which it almost
directly passed (Morman Poplars) did not just bend with the wind as if a plane
had gone by, but, in URIE's words, "spum around on top as if they were ina
vacuum.”

KEITH URIE, eight years of age, said he first saw the machine coming
down the canyon, heading from east to west and following the contours of the
ground, BILLY, age ten, saw it almost immdiately, Both watched it fly out
of sight behind a tree in a matter of moments, They said they then ran to
their Father and learned that he too had seen the machine,

URIE seemed completely sincere about the incident. He said his wife
and daughter were in the house at the time and had not seen the machines He
questioned his brother, who also lives in the canyon, but his brother had been
eating at the time and had seen nothing, URIE and his two boys mintained
that they had never before seen one of the discs, URIE, when interviewed, ap-
peared to be a sober, middleeaged man,

JOHN-ERO OSNAN, the"Times News" reporter who originally furnished
Special Agents with information about the incident, likewise stated that URIE
appeared completely sincere about the machine,

we

_« No further attempt was made to locate L. * ae inasmuch as
Je Het OWN, who was with HAWKINS at the time, was interviewed. BROWN's nam
thheld fran the newspaper because HAWKINS and BROWN were fishing at Sale
mon dam while BROWN was supposed to have been working in Twin Falls,

BROWN said simply that he and HAWKINS could hear a roar, They looked
up and could see two instruments flying at a great height, which BROWN mentioned
might have been between four thousand and six thousand feet. However, he said
he had no idea how large the devices were and consequently, they may have been
seversl miles away, He said thet he and HAWKINS were satisfied they had seen
somthing and they were very doubtful that they had seen two planese

RJG:FO'tS

Ence (2)

|

TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, FRIDAY, AUGUST 15, 1947

Heads Up, Folks! The Dises Are Flying Ag

SiDE VitWw BOTTOM ViEwW END VIEW

This is an artist’s conception of the flying disc that A. C. Urie saw | sides, and could well be the inspiration for something new in women’s
sweeping through Snake river canyon six miles west of Blue Lakes hats, such as a “flying saucer” creation. (Drawing by Vic

» Goertzen-
ranch, It seemed to be ee by jets — a fiery begged on both staff yay

Flying Saucer Renotied Flashing cute Canyon
At 1,000 Miles Per Hour; Two Others Are Seen |

By JOHN BROSNAN the fast-flying objects the nation , scription of the flying discs seen by , come concerned about what was de-
Just as Magic Valley and the|has yet produced. him and his son, Keith, 8, and Billy, | laying them, and had walked down |

nation were starting to let go of The flying saucer Urie saw was} 10: | toward the river to see if they were
lampposts after reeling under a | skimming along through Snake river “J obtained a close-up view of | all right.

welter of flying saucer reports, two | canyon at a height of about 175] the flying saucer as it passed by the “T had a side view at a distance
more Twin Falls county men re-| feet at 1 p. m. Wednesday. At 9:30] trout farm at 1 p. m. Aug. 13 going | of about 300 feet and almost on a
vived speculation on the mystery|a. m. the same day, L. W. Hawk- | down Snake river canyon at a height | level with the thing,” Urie con-
with vivid descriptions of discs they | ins, Twin Falls county commis-|of about 75 feet from the canyon | tinued. “Two of my boys, Keith
saw. sioner and former county sheriff | floor. I would estimate the speed | and Billy, were below me and they

ty From A. C. Urie, who operates |from Filer, also saw two circular | at about 1,000 miles per hour.” lalso saw it at about a 45-degree |

the Auger Falls Trout farm six objects soaring along at a great Urie explained that the incident | angle. They both got a bottom and
miles west of Blue Lakes ranch in| height near Salmon dam 40 miles| occurred while the two boys were|a side view, and we were all look-
ake river canyon, came perhaps | southwest of Twin Falls. |coming across the river from the | ing at it from the south side of the
most detailed account of one of Here is Urie’s eye-witness de-| north side in a boat. He had be- |

(Continued on Page 8, Column 6)

‘Saucer’ Seen
Flying Down
Snake Gorge

(From Page One)
river facing toward the north. The
boys saw it coming about half a
mile up the canyon, and we all lost
sight of it in less than a mile.”

While the impression was still
vivid in their minds, the three got
/| together and made rough sketches
i|of what they had seen. These, in

turn, were the basis for the artist’s

conception of the strange affair by

Vic Goertzen of Twin Falls for the

Times-News.

“It was all one color—sort of a
light sky blue with a red, tubular

S.fiery glow at the side of the top or
hood,” Urie continued.

“the canyon floor is rough at
hat qparticular point, and it rode
up and down over the hills and hol-
lows at a speed indicating some
type of control faster than the
reflexes of man. It Is my opinion
that it is guided by instruments and
must be powered by atomic energy,
as it made very little noise—just a
s-w-i-s-h as it passed by.”

Urie described the size as about
20 feet long by 10 feet high and
10 feet wide, giving it an oblong
shape, It might be described as look-
ing like an inverted pie-plate or
broad-brimmed straw hat that had
been compressed from two sides.

Pressed for his candid opinion of
just what it was, Urie said that he|
was convinced that there was some-
thing to this flying saucer situation.
“IT know a number of the people who
have also seen them and I know
that they’re not just imagining

‘|something or trying to get their
names in the paper,” Urie com-
mented.

“I do know that it scared the boys
and made me feel pretty uneasy,”
he added.

Tracing down a rumor that County
Commissioner Hawkins had seen an
unusual object. in the air on the
same day as Urie’s experience, the}
Times-News called him at his Filer}
home.

“Yes, I did,” he replied without
hesitation. “I'll: have to admit I’ve
been skeptical all along until I saw |
it with my own eyes. I can’t say]
what it was, but I can say there’s|
something in the air.”

Hawkins related that while at
Salmon dam Wednesday morning,
a sound resembling the echo of a
motor caused him to look upward,
and there he saw two circular ob-
jects that reflected light. They were
traveling at. a great speed and
higher than most airplanes, accord-
ing to Hawkins.

Aside from this, he declined to
add details, except to say, “There’s
something in the air.”

His general description, however,
corresponded. closely to those of
hundreds of persons who reported
seeing flying saucers after Kenneth
Arnold, Boise businessman, had
touched off the deluge by telling of
coming upon nine disc-like objects
while he was flying in his private
plane in Washington.

Thereafter, the nation became in-
creasingly flying saucer conscious,
creating a state of mind that made
it possible for four *teen age Twin
Falls boys to cause a mild sensa-
tion when they built a model flying
disc and tossed into a local yard
July 10. This was subseuently re-
vealed as a hoax, following investi-
gation by the army and FBI.

Thereafter the saucer reports
tapered off into a few scattered in-
cidents until the question was re-
vived by this week’s occurrences.

Speculation has ranged from
mention that the discs could be
army or navy guided missile experi-
ments, or that they could be similar
experiments by some foreign coun-
try, to “something out of this
world.”

Whatever, they are, a lot of people
have seen “something.”

GO ON ABOUT
YOUR BUSINESS!

“If you quit driving to work
save enough money to buy Ju
the yard!”

OCAPN/KDS: ep

#3724=1 24 July 1947

MEMORANDUM. TO THE SECURITY OFFICER, OCAMA, TINKER FIELD.

SUBJECT: BYRON B. SAVAGE, Field Engineer, Radio Corporation
of America, Dallas, Texas. Residence: 416 N. W. 296h Street,
Oklahoma City, Oklahome, )

RE: Flyind Disc.

On 23 July 1947, BYRON B. SAVAGE was interviewed at his residence,
416 N. We. 29th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, relsting to his alleged
viewing of a flying dise over the vicinity of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Subject, whose ege is 38, advised he is married and has one child,
end is presently the holder of a Private Pilot's License, No. 59101
(Single Engine, Lend). Subject averred he has extensively studied electron-
ics, sound engineering end aeroneutics, and his present occupstion, which is
Field Engineer for Radio Corporation of America, offices of which are
located in Dallas, Texas, is that of installing theater sound equipment.
SAVAGE stated that between the days 17 May to 21 Mey 1947, just efter dusk,
he observed an object which he believed to be a small sircraft in the south.
SAVAGE advised that the sun had just gone dowm end the moon had not arisen
on the horizon. SAVAGE related thet he and his wife had just departed
their residence and had started to enter their car in the driveway et
416 N, W. 29th Street, Oklahome City. He judged the time to be between
8:30 pem. end 9:00 poem, and the lights from the city of Oklahoma City
appeared to be shining on this object when he first saw it. He judged the
object to be about 160° in the south when he first sew it, and as it moved
towerd him he remarked to his wife thet "a big white plane wes coming over.”

SAVAGE stated that when this object was at a 45° angle from him, he
realized it was not a conventional type sircraft, end it appeared elliptical
at first end as it moved closer it appeared perfectly round and wes flete
SAVAGE advised the object, which appeared to him as e disc, had no appearance
of being spherical and had a ratio of diameter to the thickness of approxi-
mately 10 to 1, appearing thicker in the center, but this could not be
positively ascertained, SAVAGE judged the object to be at ean altitude of
between 10,000 and 18,000 feet, and it left no trailing effects. SAVAGE
related that it appeared to be in bulk as big as the bulk of six Be29s at
an eltitude of epproximately the same height. SAVAGE advised that the object
was in his vision approximately 15 to 20 seconds and travelled at a speed
which he judged to be approximately three times that of jet-propelled aircraft.

ney
Memo “to the Security Officer, OCAMA, Tinker Field, dtd 7/24/47, File
3724-1,

SAVAGE stated that there were no protrusions on this object end as it
went by he listened for a sound of noise, and at one time thouzht he dis-
tinguished a swishing sound like the rushing of air. This swishing sound
occurred a few seconds after this object had passed him. SAVAGE averred
this sound was not very loud end did not last very long, and it is very
possible that the sound could heve been his imagination or expectation, as
he was not sure of the sound. SAVAGE related thet he called his wife to
see this object but it had disappeared before she could focus her eyes on
it. Subject stated thet the object appeared to diminish in size and
speed as it mov q ays and it wes moving in a direction of 350° to the
north. Subject/ste ted thet the object sppeared to be frosty white in
color at all times.

SAVAGE advised that he has held a pilot's certificate since 1934 end
has been flying since 1929. He advised that he would be glad to answer any
further inquiries and will cooperate in every way possible. SAVAGE stated
he was sure this object was not a meteor and in his opinion it must be
radically built snd powered, probably atomic.

KAIMAN D. SIMON
C.I. U.S. Army

. om COPY
pa. » Incident
aie. 4AF 1208 I

16 July 1947
; OFFICER IN CHARGEs

1. On 12 July 1947, Mr. Kenneth Arnold, Box 387, Boise, Idaho,
was interviewed in regard to the report by Mr. Arnold that he saw 9
strenge objects flying over the Cascede Mountain Range of Washington
State on July 25th. Mr. Arnold voluntarily sgreed to give the interviewer
@ written report of exactly what he hed seen on the above mentioned dete.
The written report of Mr. Arnold is sttached to this report as Exhibit A,

AGENT'S NOTES: Mr, Arnold is a man of 32 yeers of age, being married md
the father of two children. He is well thought of in the community in

which he lives, being very much the family men end from all appearances

@ very good provider for his family. Mr. Arnold has recently purchased a
home on the outskirts of Boise, recently purchased a $5,000 airplene in
which to conduct his business to the extent of which is explained in the
attached exhibit. It is the personal opinion of the interviewer that Mr,
Arnold actually saw whet he stated thet he saw, It is difficult to believe
that a men of Mr. Arnold's character and apparent integrity would state

thet he saw objects end write up a report to the extent that he did if he
did not see them. To go further, if Mr. Arnold can write a report of the
character thet he did while not having seen the objects that he claimed he
saw, it is the opinion of the interviewer that Mr. Arnold is in the wrong
business, that he should be writing Buck Rogers fiction, Mr, Arnold is

very outspoken end somewhat bitter in his opinions of the leaders of the

U. S. Army Air Forces and the Federal Bureeu of Investigatién for not having
made an investigation of this matter sooner. To put all of the statements
meade by Mr. Arnold in this report would make it a voluminous volune. However,
efter having checked an aeronautical map of the erea over which Mr. Arnold
claims thet he saw the objects it wes determined thet all statements made by
Mr, Arnold in regerd to the distances involved, speed of the objects, course
of the objects and size of the objects, could very possibly be facts. The
distences mentioned by Mr. Arnold in his report are within a short distance
of the actual distences on eaeronsutical charts of this area, although Mr.
Arnold has never consulted aeronatitical charts of the type the Army uses.
Mr. Arnold stated that this business hed suffered greatly since his report
on July 25 due to the fact that et every stop on his business routes, large
crowds of people were waiting to question him as to just what he hed seen,
Mr, Arnold stated further that if he, st any time in the future, saw anything
in the sky, to quote Mr. Arnold directly, “if I saw a ten story building

FRANK M. BROWN, S/A, CIC 4th AF

Incident
4AF 1208 I

flying through the air I would never say a word about it", due to the
fact that he has been ridiculed by the press to such an extent thet he

is practically a moron in the eyes of the majority of the population of
the United States.

1 Incl: Exhibit "A"

FRANK M. BROWN, S/A, CIC 4th AF

» COPY

Mad

SOME LIFE DATA ON KENNETH ARNOLD

I wes born March 29, 1915 in Subeke, Minnesote. My father's
neme was Edward Erb Arnolds; my mother's maiden name was Bertha
E, Barden. Iwas e& resident of Minnesota until’ I was six years
old when my family moved to Scobey, Montana, where they home-
steaded. My grandfether, Rolend C. Arnold also homesteaded in
Scobey, Montana, snd became quite prominent in political circles
along with Burton K, Wheeler, the famous Montena senator,

I went to grede school and high school at Minot, North
Dakota. I entered scouting at twelve years of age end achieved
the rank of Hagle scout before I was fourteen. My former scout
executive was H. H. Prescott, now sa regional commissioner for
the Boy Scouts in Kenses City, Kansas,

As @ boy, 1 was interested in athletics and was selected
as an allestate end in 1932 and 1933 in the state of North
Dakote. I entered the U. S. Olympic tr#als in fancy diving in
1932; I wes a Red Cross Life Saving Examiner during the years
of 1932, 'S3 end 'S4, $1 taught swimming end diving at scout
camps and the municipal pool in Minot, North Dekota. I went
to the University of Minnesota, where I swem end did fancy
diving under Neils Thorpe, and elso played. footbell under Bernie
Biermen, but upon entering college I was unable to continue my
football career because of ean injured knee, My high school foot-

bell coach was Glenn L,. Jarrett, who is now the head football

coach of the University of North Dakota, I had little or no

finances, and my ambition in furthering my education in college

was through my athletics, As a boy in Minot, North Dakota, I
did e good deal of dog sled racing, placing first with my -dog
in 1930 in the Lions Club Dog Derby.

In 1938 I went to work for Red Comet, Ine. of Littleton,
Coloredo, a menufacturer of automatic fire fighting apparetus.
In 1939 I wes made district manager for them over « part of the
western states, and in 1940 I established my own fire control
supply known as the Greet Western Fire Control Supply. I have
been working as an independent fire control engineer since,
end I handle, distribute, sell end install all types of auto
metic and manual fire fighting equipment in the rural areas over
five western states,

My flying experience started as a boy in Minot, North
Dekote, where I took my first flying lesson from Earl 1. Vance,
who was originelly from Great Falls, Montena. Due to the high
cost at thet time, I was unable to continue my flying and did
not fly of any great consequence until 1943. I wes given my
pilot certificate by Ed Leach, a senior CAA inspector of
Portland, Oregon, and for the last three years have owned my
own eirplane covering my entire territory with same end flying

from forty to one hundred hours per month since. Due to the

fact thet I use an airplane entirely in my work, in January

of this year I purchased a new Callair airplene, which is an
airplane designed for high altitude take-offs end short rough
field usage. z

In the type of flying I do, it tekes a creat deal of

Page 3- Some Life Data on Kenneth Arnold

practice end judgment to be able to land in most eny cow

asture and cet out without injuring your airplanes; the
=) 5 iS

runways ere very limited and the altitude is very high in

some of the fields and places I have to go in my work. To
date, I have landed in 832 cow pastures in mountein meadows,
end in over ea thousend hours a flat tire has been my greatest

mishap.

FBI SEATTLE 8-14-47 5-21 PM

DIRECTOR FBI URGENT
L. Re BRUMMETT. SID/BECKER
AUCUST FOURTEEN MS0MMMHK NINETEEN FORTYSEVEN SEATTLE POST INTELLIGENCER
PUBLISHED ARTICLE 10 EFFECT THAT L. Re/BRUNMETT, BOX TWO FIVE FOUR RED-
MOND, WASH, AND SIDNEY DECKER BOX TWO NINE SIX REDMOND, WASHINGTON HAD
SIGHTED TWO DISCS AT APPROXIMATELY NINE AM AUGUST THIRTEEN NINETEEN
FORTYSEVEN. UPON INTERVIEW DECKER STATED THAT TWO VERY BRIGHT OJECTS
TRAVELING AT AN EXTREME RATE OF SPEED WERE NOTICED BY HIM AS HEWAS
STANDING NEAR THE REDMOND POST OFFICE. DECKER DESCRIBED THE OBJECTS
AS HAVING NO WINGS, NO TAIL, AND BOTH ENDS WERE TAPERED. DECKER ADDED
THAT THE OBJECTS RESEMBLED A BELLY TANK AND THAT THEY WERE NOISELESS.
THE OBJECTS WERE VERY BRIGHT AND TRAVELING IN A NORTHEASTERLY DIRECTION
OVER REDMOND, WASHINGTON, ONE A BIT BEHIND AND A LITTLE ABOVE THE OTHER
MAINTAINING EQUAL RATES OF SPEED FOR APPROXIMATELY EIGHT SECONDS AY,
WHICH TIME THEY DISAPPEARED FROM VIEW. DECKER ADDED THAT THEY WERE
HIGHER THAN A PLANE GENERALLY TRAVELS. BRUMMETT ADVISED THAT HE NOTICED
THE OBJECTS AND CALLED DECKERS ATTENTION TO THEM AND ALSO POINTED THEM
OUT TO A MRS MAMIE ENGLISH. BRUMMETT STATED THAT HE SAW TWO OBJECTS
FLYING. AT A FORTYFIVE DEGREE ANGLE NORTHEASTERLY OVER pin aha /4

6 Le fui)
/

» Sf

PAGE TWO

TRAVELING AT LEAST THREE TIMES FASTER THAN A PLAN. BRUMMETT ADDED THAT
HE WATCHED THE OBJECTS FROM FIVE TO EIGHT SECONDS AT WHICH TIME THEY
DISAPPEARED FROM SIGHT. ACCORDING TO BRUMMETT THE OBJECTS WERE DESCRIBED
AS BEING NOISELESS, HAVING NO WINGS OR TAIL, LIGHTER THAN ALUMINUM,
TAPERED AT BOTH ENDS AND ONE STAYED A LITTLE BEHIND AND A BIT ABOVE THE
OTHER AND BOTH MAINTAIND EQUAL RATES OF SPEED. FROM BRUMMETTS OBSERVATIO
HE WAS UNABLE TO DECIDE WHETHER THE OBJECTS WERE FLAT OR ROUND. MRS
MAMIE/ ;LISH STATED THAT WHEN BRUMMETT CALLED HER ATENTION TO THE
OBJECTS SHE TOOK A PASSING GLANCE AT THE SKY AND COULD OFFER NO
DESCRIPTION OTHER THAN THEY LOOKED LIKE TWO SILVER BALLS TRAVELING

AT A FAST RATE OF SPEED,

END
SHOLD PLS
9-28 PM OK FBI WASH DC GAR

ae

Septemb

at the

The article went on t
some correlation |
that RAYMOND PALME

tal
gate "cover"

+h 4 rf
that it was eved
zt ‘lying

ra Zi

Island
LS dal IMA

eli
dise and
ne editor,

explosion

a poe

—w LAlIc

setwe

R

0 the | Murray

employed

¥ he A TQ
75) ’ Ch had rs
,
the

and ] ras:

renee
went st

c >)

“m0 119A 5
‘us T 194 a
3

Army and

The article on to
there a conference among

the possible relation tween
of flying discs. ARNOLD was
conference. At t conference
netal, allegedly taken from

tate that on Au
officials i
the Murray oa explosion and
supposed to have been in attendance
thoriti piinehé sal of
cene of

the Murray Island exp

la

was ae

be

+

au moles

Loo

. k
ne e, 2S

the

The
for

The

article
Hamilton
article
California, ar
combustion

that following
California, carrying
reported that
conjectured
lava

£

of

cra sawed near Hamil
plane had exploded
carried.

plane
the
oxide meté it

the
.

the
vas

1e

the 1e

v
tl

34+

LU

From the above

SHAVER 's te a
tytn discs, poss:
ossit le, therefore,

PALL [ER and S

vere article,
he start
to enhance the

should be noted
"exploiting"
appeal of
flying

that
the ap}

THR ta
44 ne]

ea L

was from bare
W rom eara

wr

the

= ee
f OLY
+ 1, Ata
UF tne aise

TA ite

slab

OAG:
100-18999

the confe1 be two pilots left
lava ox

er 20

iscussed
the appeaaehon
> at this
lava oxide
losion.
*t by plane
e metal.
ton Field,

by reason of

A

ND TALS MER,
nee of the

stories.
concei vec

erento FORM No. 64 é +

Office Memorandum + onrrep states GOVERNMENT

i 7
Ly : Director, FBI DATE: J=L7h'7)

—AFROM +: SAC, Anchorage

SUBJECT: “Flying/Disks

Reference is made to Bureau Bulletin No. 42 dated July 30, We
1947. 3

This is to advise that two army officers reported to the /[ /
Office of the Director of Intelligence, headquarters Alaskan Department,
at Fort Richardson, Alaska, that they had witnessed an object passing
through the air at a tremendous rate of speed which could not be judged
as to miles per hour.

The first officer stated that his attention was attracted to
this airborne object, and he in turn pointed it out to the second of-
ficer. The object appeared to be shaped like a sphere and did not give
the impression of being saucer-like or comparable to a disk. The first.
officer stated that it would be impossible to give minute details con-
cerning the object, but that it appeared to be approximately two or three
feet in diameter and did not leave any vapor ~ trail in the sky. ; ‘

Both officers attempted to determine the approximate altitude
of the object, and from a weather group stationed nearby it was de-
termined that cloud formations at the time the object was sighted were”
“scattered above 10,000 feet." The object was noted to be traveling
below the cloud formation.

The first officer stated that in his opinion the object ap-
peared to be metallic and was silver in color, mech like the color of
many airplanes.

The second officer stated substantially the same facts and
also pointed out that the object remined within his vision for ap-
proximately 15 to 20 seconds. When sighted, the object was traveling
due south at a speed considerably in excess of any plane. The second
officer stated that the object appeared to him to be approximately 10 /)
feet in diameter and compared it to half the size of a full moon on an / :
ordinary night. The second officer based the altitude at approximately 4~A~~~
the same as the first offiter except for the fact that due to the size
he believed the object to be, he estimated the altitude to be only
approximately 3,000 or 4,000 feet. The object appeared broadside to
the second officer, and no evidence of a spinning motion or reflection
was noted. As to the color, the second officer pointed out that it
appeared to be a dull metal tinishe, A }

OPIES DESTROYED ¢; ~~ akt-

»'7O. NOV 18 1964

J
AY.

~

¥
»

Letter to Director, FBI
Re: Flying Disks

In conclusion, the second officer pointed out that one of
the remarkable features of this object was that it was definitely
traveling against the wind.

The exact date of the sighting of this object was not fur-
nished this office, and inasmch as it occurred previously to the re-
ceipt of Bureau instructions in this matter, no further investigation
is being conducted by this office mless specifically requested to do
so by the Bureau.

100-1403
HLM :GWH

STANDARD,FORM NO. 64 : <
oy - ?

: Offece Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERN

Director, FBI DATE: September 1947

% ands : SAC, Philadelphia
ft} 4 a-

V/

SUBJECT: FLYING OBJECT REPORTED OVER PHILADELPHIA ‘
AUGUST 6, 1947 ra yur
SABOTAGE , : Eg We jo a

Remytel sar 7 last. F2// Iu “AL

—

Miss ELEANO DLE, 2114 Hobart Street, Philadelphia, who is employed
by the GEORGE KR. GRE ALD” MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 1524 Chestnut Street, Phila-
delphia, advised as follows:

Between 10:30 and 10:45 p.m. on August 6, 1947, she 1 was sitting on
the steps of her home with CECELEA/FINE. She was facing north and observed
a large white object traveling a very fast rate of speed to the south.
There was a buzzing sound, not too loud but plainly audible, just after this
object passed through the air. This white object left in its trait a thin
streak of smoke, which was grayish in colore

Miss CECELIA FINE, 5617 Arlington Street, Philadelphia, who is en-
ployed by the PRESSMAN & GUTMAN COMPANY, INC., Room 1140, P.S.F.S. Building,
Philadelphia, stated she was sitting on the steps of Miss NADDLE's home on
the evening of August 6, 1947, around 10:45 pem.e engaging in conversation
with Miss NADDLE, when Miss NADDLE atruptly stopped in the»middle of her con
versation and appeared to be frightened. Miss FINE at that time was sitting
in a position in which she was facing southe She did not see any object in
the sky after noting Miss NADDLE's change of expression, but she did hear a
slight buzzing sound.

JOHN SNYDER, 1440 Vankirk Street, Philadelphia, an insurance agent,
who was a former pilot of B-24's in the Army Air Corps, advised as follows:

He was sitting on the steps of his home around 10:45 p.m. on August
6, 1947, with his wife; and his neighbors, the KELLY family, were sitting on
their steps next door to the residence of SNYDER. All of the above parties
were facing east. SNYDER noticed at this time an object, emitting a bluish-
white flame, passing quickly through the air. The object was traveling from
northeast to southwest. Using his experience in the Army Air Corps as a guide,
SNYDER estimated the above object was between 1000 and 3000 feet in the air
and traveling at a rate of between 400 to 500 miles an hour. This object dia
not lose elevation as it passed through the air and left either smoke or a
condensation trail in its former path, which lasted for about two seconds.
A hissing sound accompanied the passing is object. This sound was moder-
ate and not nearly as loud as jap accompanying the passage of a rocket

ship. 2094
LA/| ‘er “CORD zy)! Be, — £26 4:
(ob 4 MU ; 8

NDRX ED setae

7

NOV 18 ivb4

Director, FBI September 18, 1947

JOHN J. KELLY, 1442 Vankirk Street, who is a retired police officer
of the Philadelphia Police Department, advised as follows:

Around 10:45 p.m. on August 6, 1947, he and his wife were sitting on
the steps of their home, when KELLY noticed an object, resembling to him a
giant firecracker, pass quickly through the air. KELLY heard no noise, but
the object had completely passed from view in a southern direction within a
split second. It left a fiery trail for about 100 feet. August 6, 1947,
was a clear night, and no storm was brewing. KELLY was sure the object he
saw was no falling star, and he noted the above object did not seem to be
falling but maintained the same altitude.

The wives of SNYDER and KELLY verified the accounts of their husbands
as to the above-mentioned object.

It is to be noted that the SNYDERS and the KELLYS live in Northeast.
Philadelphia near Oxford Circle, which is about ten miles removed from the
residence of Miss NADDLE. Miss NADDLE's residence is located in the western
part of Philadelphia. The Misses NADDLE and FINE are not known to the above-
mentioned KELLYS and SNYDERS. It is further noted the observation of Miss
NADDLE, the KELLYS, and the SNYDERS roughly correspond. All of the above
persons seem reliable and not the type to seek publicity or to spread rumors.

Miss NADDLE and JoHPKELLY cel led the "Inquirer", Philadelphia news-
paper, and inquired if it could offer any explanation as to what they had
seen. A representative of that paper had advised Miss NADDLE and KELLY that
the object they saw may have been some product of an oil refinery or chemical
company in their neighborhood.

Both the Offices of Naval Intelligence and Army Intelligence in Phila-
delphia were requested by the Philadelphia Office to ascertain if either the
Army or the Navy was doing any experimental work on new types of planes or
equipment, in the vicinity of Philadelphia. ‘Such was done with negative re-
sults. The Office of Naval Intelligence indicated that an explosion had oc-
curred at the CHARLES LENNIG CHEMICAL COMPANY on August 6, 1947.

S. A. GIMBEL, Safety Department of the CHARLES LENNIG CHEMICAL COMPANY,
INC., 5000 Richmond Street, Philadelphia, advised as follows:

The above company is a manufacturer and distributor of chemicals.
A fire had occurred on a dump of the company on August 6, 1947, but was
quickly gotten under control. Such fire was confined to the company's prem-
ises and could not have been observed from outside the plant. The CHARLES

Director, FBI September 18, 1947

LENNIG COMPANY is about two and one-half miles southeast from Oxford Circle.
The account of the fire does not seem to fit into the general pattern of the
above-mentioned flying object, for itis noted that the flying object was
allegedly traveling from a position northeast of Oxford Circle to a south-
westerly direction in Philadelphia. GIMBEL pointed out that, to the best

of his knowledge, there are no oil refineries and chemical companies located
around Oxford Circle or north of such, but that all of the companies of this
type are several miles south of Oxford Circle.

All logical investigation having been conducted, no further action
will be taken on the instant matter unless advised to the contrary by the
Bureau.

FFB/ctg
98-1762

RECORD ED

September 27, 1947

Major General George C. MoDonald
Assistant Chief Air Staff - 2
The Pentagon

Dear General weDonAld:

The Federal Bureau of Investigation has been requested
by your office to assist in the investigation of reported sight-
ings of flying discs.

My attention has been called to instructions disseminated
by the Air Forces relative to this matter. I have been advised
that these instructions indicate that the Air Forces would inter-
view responsible observers while the FBI would investigate incidents
of dises found on the ground, thereby relieving the Air Forces of
running down incidents which in many cases turned out to be “ash
can covers, toilet seats and whatnot."

In view of the apparent understanding by the Air Forces
of the position of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in this
matter, I cannot permit the personnel and time of this organiza-
tion to be dissipated in this manner.

I am advising the Field Divisions of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation to discontinue all investigative activity regard- , <4
ing the reported sightings of flying discs, and am instructing them ~“
to refer all complaints received to the appropriate Air Force :

representative in their area.

Sincerely yours,

el
—

| ee peas ne NS SECTIO
ORS Fie ED, 8

aA A | Lo

ae

-

P
“ ’
STANDARD FORM NO. 64 +’ 4
2

f Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

+ Tolson
A.

i
Clegs .
gs

Mens ene se

TO : THE DIRECTOR DATE: September 25, 1947
FROM : D. Me wo

SUBJECT: FLYING DI
———

Rosen,
Tracy’
Carson,

Saal,
7 ra
ww
own

aaiephitde 2

The Bureau was requested by the Air Forces Intelligence to assist: id
the Air Forces in attempting to arrive at an explanation of the above
phenomena. The Air Forces indicated that the alleged sightings of flying Wie fins
discs might have been made by individuals of Communist sympathies for the
purpose of causing mass hysteria in the United States over the fear of a secret
Russian weapone The Bureau agreed to assist in the investigation of the reported
sightings, and the Field was advised in Bureau Bulletin No. 42, Series 1947, dated
July 30, 1947, that they should investigate each instance which was brought to
their attention of the sighting of a flying disc in order to ascertain whether or
not it was a bona fide sighting, an imaginary one, or a pranke The results of the
investigation conducted by the Bureau Field Offices in this matter have failed to
reveal any indication of subversive individuals being involved in any of the
reported sightings.

The Bureau has received a communication in the captioned matter from
the Special Agent in Charge at San Francisco, dated September 19, 1947, which
attached a "restricted" letter that was furnished confidentially to the SAC at
San Francisco by Lieutenant Colonel Donald Le Springer, A=-2, Army Air Forces,
Hamilton Field, California, a copy of which is attached hereto. It is noted
that the letter, which is dated September 3, 1947, is signed "By Command of
Lieutenant General Stratemeyer" by Colonel Re He Smith, Assistant Chief of Staff
Intelligence, Headquarters, Air Defense Command, Mitchel Field, New York,’ and is
addressed to the Commanding Generals of the various Air Forces. This letter is
entitled "Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of 'Flying Disc' Incidents."

This letter states in substance that it was the original intent of the
AC/AS-2, Headquarters, Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would
interview responsible observers, the FBI would investigate incidents of so-called
discs being found on the ground. Further, it indicates that the services of the
FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered Air Forces of the task of
tracking down all the many instances which turned out to be "ash can covers,

| }toilet seats and whatnot."

RECOMMENDATION s

It is recommended that the Bureau protest vigorously to the Assistant

“Chief of Air Staff - 2. It is also recommended that the Bureau discontinue all

activity in this field and that the Bureau Field Offices be advised to discon
tinue all investigations and to refer all complaints received to the Air Forces.
A proposed Bulletin is attached for your approval.

Attachment. poo

6.250 iP

HEADQUARTERS
AIR DEFENSE COMMAND
Mitchel *ield, New York
In reply
refer to;

D 333 «SEX 3 September 1947

SUBJECT; Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of "Flying
Disc” Incidents.

Commanding Genrals, First, Second, Fourth, Tenth, Eleventh
and Fourteenth Air Forces
ATTENTION; Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2

1. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has agreed to assist Air
Force Intelligence personnel in the investi gation of "flying disc"
incidents in order to quickly and effectively rule out what are pranks
and to concentrate on what appears to be a genuine incident.

2. It was the original intent of the AC/AS-2, Headquarters,
Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would interview respon=
sible observers whose names would be furnished by AAF, the FB1 would
investigate incidents of so called "discs" being found on the ground.
The services of the FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered
Air Forces of the task of tracking down all the many instances which
turned out to be ash can covers, toilet seats and whatnot.

3. It is requested that each A-2 informally coordinate and
cooperate with the FBI, generally keeping the FBI informed of any
proposed calls that intelligence personnel will make on this subject.
Very shortly, with the separation of the AAF from the War Department,
a firm policy will be established to clarify the liaison arrangements
between A=-2's and FBI ‘Special Agents. Presently, it is considered
inadvisable to promulgate e formal interim policy -- only to have it
replaced in a month or so by another.

BY COMMAND OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL STRATEMEYER;

/s/ Re He SMITH
Re He. SMITH
Colonel, GSC
Asst Chief of Staff-Intell.

geist

STANDARD FORNggp. 64 * Fad *

Office Me. wiwtum ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

{>
TO = MR. LADD oh fp DATE: SEPTEMBER 23, 1947.

FROM : B, G, riroa >;

SUBJECT: INSTRUMENT FOUND ON FARM NEAR

DANFORTH, ILLINOIS Co, F .

#

FERRE SSEE

~

f

FS
Zeb ag
Bas

< CN
* Quinn Tamm

Reference is made to a memorandum to Mre Harbo from Mr. Baughman tele: kom ——
on the above-captioned matter, dated September 3, 1947. The reference Hide Holes —
memorandum indicates that the instrument has been examined by the Laborato
and the laboratory had contacted a Mrs. Whedon of the Army Engineers and she d 4 ,

7 ey ,
indicated that the instrument had been used by the Air Forces on tests nich BLY
were classified as “Top Secret."

The memorandum indicates that Special Agent S. W. ‘eynolds of the Liaison
Section contacted the Intelligence Division of the Air Forces and was advised that
Mrs. Whedon alluded that the instrument was used in "Operation Mogul." The instru-
ment was loaned to the Intelligence Division of the Air Forces who in turn forwarded
it to Wright Field. The report was received from Wright Field indicating the
instyvument had no connection wi peration Mogul" or any other operation at Wright
Field. It was classified as ah in view of the apparent discrepancy between
information developed from Mrs. Whedon and information received from Intelligence
Division of the Air Forces that the Bureau might wish to pursue this matter further.

Mre Zimmers of the Technical laboratory advised Mr. Reynolds of the Liaison
Section that Mrs. Whedon had told him that a Major Hopkins handled the Liaison in
Washington for the tests in which this instrument was used. Ijeutenant Colonel George
Garrett of the Intelligence Division of the Air Forces advised Special Agent Reynolds
that he contacted Major Hopkinse He advised that Major Hopkins has had a great deal
of experience in radio and along technical linese Major Hopkins advised Colonel
Garrett that the instrument could not have been used in the "Operation Mogul." Hopkins
indicated that from the pictures and particles recovered, it appeared to him to be a

part or portions of an old-type radio loud speaker, f
In view of the information received from Major Hopkins, Colonel Rn

stated that he was at a loss as to how to explain the actions of Mrs. Whedon other
than to say that she perhaps gave a false impression as to her knowledge of the ry
instrument and the "Operation Mogul." Garrett pointed out that in view of the ‘
report received from Wright Field, together with the statement made by Major Hopkins,
he felt that there was sufficient evidence that this instrument was not used in any |
Bar’ eyo classified project and that in all probability it was just a hoax.

ir rer ce

RECOMMENDATION: It is recommended that this meper endive be forwarded to
the Technical laboratory for their info geome, 2)

bn 22 i
eae Se OOTRRS fyys

25 August 1947
S@jects Flying Saucers

wrapped with ordiuary thin enameled copper wire. These coils indicate
that they were skillfully uade at one time but were crudely rewrapped by
one not familiar with the art of making a coil, These coils also have no
connection with any AMO project.

Ss The fourth article is a metallic box which is the remains of
an electronic filter emdenser made by the Polymet Manufacturing Company
of New York, Ne Yo This article also has no connection with any AMG proe
ject,

ad ‘the fifth article is the remains of a metallic magnetic
ring that could not be identified as any part of any device used at this

command,

lL. This information and attached photograph may be transmitted to
the FBI to inform various agencies throughout the United States as to what
action to take in the event other similar specimens are found,

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

H, U. MeGcyY
2 Incl: Colonel, Air Corps

1 Photo S-1/2x12 Deputy Commanding General
"Plying Saucer" Intelligence (T-2)

~* T. He Barkow

»

CA

q Post-OrFice DEPARTMENT ¢

BUREAU OF THE CHIEF INSPECTO!
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR

NSPECTOR Chicago 7, Illinois Case No. 56114-P

rof September 19, 1947.

LAKEPOREST, ILLINOIS: Alleged violation of Section 2350, P. Le. &
Re, bydes Arc Foundations sale of informa-
tion ‘on@flying disose —

Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Washington, D. Ce

Gentlemen:
The subject involved in case of above description is
C. WH Stevens, formerly of Lake Forest, Illinois, who may

also have given a Chicago address at various times.

Can you advise whether you have a record of this man
and if so, will you please forward a copy of same to me.

Sincerely yours,

GIN. Bat,

Post Office Inspector.

ds
INDEXED

a

9:

Office Memorandum + onirep sTATES GOVERNMENT

>

TO + RECTOR, FBI DATE: Septetiber\13, 1947

=X FROM = gAC, SEATTLE

4

7
SUBJECT: FLYING DISC SIGHTED

July 29, 1947, neay’ CANYON FERRY,

ITANA, BY KA RAMAN pe STEVE
HERRMANN and Re. Je (} DDEN ;

SECURITY MATTER - xX

Enclosed herewith for information of Bureau and Butte Division are ,

copies of the following received September 2, 1947, from H. Re PETERSON, At p/a< <
Air Force, S-2, McChord Field, Washington: RELIES =e

letter to Military Intelligence Division, USA, McChord Field, Wash.
from Re Je MADDEN, 427 W 3rd Ave. Spokane, Wash. dated 8/8/47,
with enclosure of Madden's "Report on a'Flying Saucer'."

No action being taken by Seattle.

REGORDED

100-18945 A j » ~
Enclosures — 2
ce: Butte

a
o~

September 24, 1947

Mr. T. H. Barkow
Inspector

Post Office Department
Chicago 7, Illinois

2 Alleged violation of Section 2360, P. L. &
FX -8 R., by des Are Foundation; sale of information
on flying disos.

Reference is made to your letter dated September 19, 1947,
requesting information regarding one C, W. Stevens, your case #56114-F.

You are advised that an effective search cannot be conducted
through the files of the Identification Division of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation on the basis of the name only. If you are able to fur-
nish the physical description of Stevens or other means of identification
such as a registry number, a search will be conducted in an effort to
furnish you with the information desired.

-
A
ad
>

> SECTION |
+ Tolson

c >)
ED-9

“cl a |

*<Clegi wr cA cs ss

ouav fn ' é U4 P.M

ESTIGATION

ETT |

-
STANDARD FORM NO. 64 + é
t+

Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED S..:... GOVERNMENT

TO " DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: Sept. 125.1947

FROM SAC, SEATTLE

TF
SUBJECT: FLYING DISKS Reported by Beer AESTROWG
and ff. Ae MICHOLS, Seattle, ashington,
August 12, 1947

SECURITY MATTER x

The newspaper, Seattle Post Intelligencer, carried an article in the
morning issue of August 13 reporting the sighting of flying disks. The article
appeared on the fifth page and was headed "Blue Triangle LetestThing Seen In
Disks". Under this caption there was a short writeup which stated, in substance,
that one BRUCE ARMSTRONG, an electronics technician, and ¢ number of other en—
gineers at the Boeing Aircraft hed sighted a mysterious flying object about 2:20
p.m. on August 12. The newspaper report further stated that the object seemed
to be fluttering Like a leaf, and appeared to be a black or dark blue triangular
substance. Jn this article also appeared another report of a disk supposedly
sighted by one M. A. NICHOLS, 1125 S. W. 102nd Street, Seattle, and NICHOLS des~
cribed it as a big ball reflecting light, giving it a purplish tinge.

Interview with BRUCE ARMSTRONG on August 13 revealed that ARMSTRONG
was standing in front of Section D of the Boeing Aircraft Plant ie about ten
other research engineers and had noticed a small Ss ack object flyit g about 200
feet high, going south over Boeing Field runway. ARMSTRONG furthe 1 ahabed, upon
interview, that the object appeared triangular in shape and Floated in the air
like a leaf, and he estimated the speed to be about fifteen miles per hour.
ARMSTRONG could not accurately determine the distance between him and the object
but it is noted that Section D is about half a mile from the opposite side of
Boeing Field where he supposedly had sighted it.

The following other research enginéers were also
this object:

Mr. JOHN H. STONER
Mr. GEORGE H. STONE RECORDED

Mr. BEN HAGE f ba nes /
ur. LEROY PERKINS ly X INDEXED 4y

Mr. DAN HAGE
The consensus of opinion of these men was that the object re scene. 2 Ghaick Yeaf
in flight and looked more like a piece of tar paper than anything. CT Wiel tiie object
reached the end of the runway in Boeing Field it climbed into the sky in a south-
westerly direction and disappeared.

Mr. KEN GRANT, oper bor of the control tower for the Northwest Airlines
was then contacted. Mr, > ca stated that he reviews 211 reports of objects seen
in the vicinity of thes ftet d and makes a log of such. Mr. GRANT reviewed | nis
log but could not sfep&ny record of such an item, but upon contact with Mr. VAUGHN

LOCKYOOD, who was ‘or duty at the time the object was supposedly sighted, the
following infogpet ion weg obtained: LOCKWOOD stated that about 2 otclock in the

Je en
q 270 Novis 164

COPIES DESTROYED

DIRECTOR, FBI FLYING DISKS, Report of 8/26/47

afternoon there were several pieces of burnt paper which flew over the field,

and he did recall a large piece of burnt paper which the wind had blown across
the runway and down the south end of the field. LOCKWOOD estimated that the
paper was approximately three feet in length. Mr. GRANT stated that undoubtedly
this was the object in question, and inasmuch as the control tower has a Soap ene
view of the area in which the engineers had sighted this object if anything fur-
ther was noted it would have appeared in the log.

Mr. M. A. NICHOLS, 1119 S. W. 102nd Street, was then interviewed regard-
ing his report of a flying object. NICHOLS stated that about 4 p.m. on August 12
he had sighted an object which he estimated to be about 35,000 feet in the air,
which was flying over his home in a southwest direction. A neighbor, RAY STANLEY,
also saw the object and STANLEY examined the same with a pair of binoculars.
According to STANLEY the object looked like a white dock moving, cylindrical in
shape, end reflected the light of the sun with a sort of purplish tinge. Other
witnesses who hed seen the object at this time were a Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE KROGSTADT,
of 1113 S. W. 102nd Street, Seattle, and their version of the object corresponded
with that of NICHOLS and STANLEY.

Contact with Mr. THOMAS E. GERMAIN, of the Seattle Weather Bureau Office
at Boeing Field, revealed that weather balloons are released every six hours
from his field commencing at 1:30 a.m. The balloons, according to Mr. GERMAIN,
are of a white gum color and reflect the light of the sun at a high altitude.
Although Mr. GERMAIN could not understend why a balloon could have been sighted
at 4 p.m., he nevertheless was certain that, from the description of the object
seen by these people, it must heve been either one of his balloons or one released
from some other area in the vicinity.

No further investigation is being conducte nis matter by this
office.

Federal Burear ot Investigation q

United States Department of Justice
422 = Federal Office Building, Civic Center U3
San Francisco 2, California
September 19, 1947

IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO

FILE NO. =

} j
Jrirector, FBI

Attention: Assistant Director D. M. LADD sy’

/

Cot
RE: -REPORTS OF FLYING DISCS

a ee eee enemies

. Dear Sire

I am transmitting herewith copies of a restricted" letter NG
September 3, 1947, which was furnished to me by Lieutenant Colonel DOWALD

L. SPRINGER, A-2, Army Air Forces, Hamilton Field, California, which letter
is designated to certain Commanding Generals in the Army Air Forces from
Colonel R. H. SMITH, Assistant Chief of Staff =- Intelligence, Headquarters
Air Defense Command, Mitchel Field, New York, concerning "Cooperation of FBI
with AAF on Investigations of ‘Flying Disc' Incidents",

It is my understanding from recent Bureau instructions that we are
to assist the Air Force Intelligence personnel in the investigation of flying
dise incidents. However, it will be noted from the attached letter that it
is Army interpretation that it was their intent that the Bureau would investi-|
gate those incidents of the so-called "discs" being found on the ground and |
apparently not those which are observed only in flight. Further, the atten- .
tion of the Bureau is respectfully called to paragraph two of this letter
and to the last sentence therein which states, "The services of the FBI wore
enlisted in order to relieve the numbered Air Forces of the task of tracking
down all the many instarides which turned out to_be ash can covers, toilet
seats and whatnote"

In the first place, the instructions issued by the Army Air Forces
in this letter appear to limit the type of investigations which the Bureau
will be asked to handle and secondly it appears to me the wording of the last
sentence in the second paragraph mentioned above is cloaked in entirely
uncalled for language tending to indicate the Bureau will be asked to conduct
investigations only in those cases which are not important and which are LL
almost, in fact, ridiculous. .

The thought has occurred to me the Bureau might desire to discuss
this matter further with the Army Air Forces both as to the types of investi-
gations which we will conduct and also to object to the scurrilous wordage
which, to say the least, is insulting to'thé Bureau in the last sentence of

paragraph twoe iS | Ind
v : RiCORD»,, if 7 hn = t ne

Ko
a,

Bie Ae 4

HEADQUARTERS
AIR DEFENSE COMMAND
Mitchel Field, New York

In reply
refer tos:

D333 .5EX 3 September 1947

SUBJECT: Cooperation of FBI with AAF on Investigations of "Flying
Disco" Incidents.

Commanding Genrals, First, Second, Fourth, Tenth, Eleventh
and Fourteenth Air Forces
ATTENTION: Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2

4 le The Federal Sureau of Investigation has agreed to assist Air
Force Intelligence personnel in the investi gation of "flying disc"
incidents in order to quickly and effectively rule out what are pranks
and to concentrate on what appears to be a genuine incident.

2 It was the original intent of the AC/AS-2, Headquarters,
Army Air Forces that whereas the ADC Air Forces would interview respon-
sible observers whose names would be furnished by AAF, the Fb1 would
investigate incidents of so called "discs" being found on the ground.
The services of the FBI were enlisted in order to relieve the numbered
Air Forces of the task of tracking down all the many instances which
turned out to be ash can covers, toilet seats and whatnot,

3. It is requested that each A-2 informally coordinate and
cooperate with the FBI, generally keeping the FBI informed of any
proposed calls that intelligence personnel will make on this subject.
Very shortly, with the separation of the AAF from the War Department,
a firm policy will be established to clarify the liaison arrangements
between A-2's and FBI “pecial Agents. Presently, it is considered
inadvisable to promulgate ea formal interim policy <= only to have it
replaced in a month or so by anothere

BY COMMAND OF LIEUTENANT GSNERAL STRATEMEYER:s

/s/ Re He SMITH
Re. He SMITH
Colonel, GSC
Asst Chief of Staff-Intell.

OS hi

a ea
Gk

(o)/etyme prses ~-Effective immedi
. ative activities ag outlined

ately, the Bureau has disco
dated July 30, 1947.

ntinued its investi-
in Section B of Bureau Bulletin

No. 42, Series 1947,

All future feports connes

ted with flying discs should be referred to
the Air Forces and no investigative action should be taken by B

ureau Agents,

~~

~~

6:

ORIGINAL C

STANDARD F.

Office NVlLemovrandusyi + ONITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Director, FBI DATE: September 27, 1947
4
As ¥ a
sanifoad Butte

SUBJECT: SCS. SIGHTED MAY 5, 1947,
1 BLIZN ISBURG AND SEATTIR, WASHI NGTON

Warden JOMN HENRY, Montana State Prison, Deer Lodge, Montana, has
advised the writer that while driving betwoen Ellensburg and Seattle, Washing~
ton, about 3:50 P.M., on May 5, 1947, he sighted a silver object streaking
across the sky. This was also seen by MELBOURNE MeHILL, convict chauffeur,
and Mrs, HENRY, This object went into a nose dive and they thought it would
crash, However, before reaching the earth it disintegrated, leaving a long
pillar of “gas" hanging in the sky. It was particularly odd because this re-
mained in form and did not blow away. It was observed by these three people
While they drove from twenty to thirty miles,

This smoky, gaseous pillar was a long ways off ant Yomained high
in the sir, Warden HENRY said that this silver object was traveling at an
excessively high rate of speed and when it disintegrated it was still a long
wey from the earth. Warden HENRY said when he first saw it he thought it was
probably a jet propelled plene but that he ‘couldn't tell except that its mo-
tions were erratic. He said he had not reported it wtil he had noticed so
much in the papers about these discs, Although three people saw it, they de-
cided that they must be "seeing things”.

The Seattle Office is requested to advise Mr. H. R. PETERSON, 4th
Air Force, S#2, McChord Field, Washington,

No further action is being taken by the Butte Office due to the
time elapsing between the sighting of this object and the report,
ee ae

WGB:LB i

f SY ido 7

cc = Seattle pas 947/* WU
, y?

:

BECO!

HOEK ED

g%

|