Authority:

NND 90986

HEADQUARTERS
IN REPLY AIR DEFENSE COMMAND
REFER TO: MITCHEL FIELD, NEW YORK

12 September 1947

SUBJECT: Unidentified Flying Object
(Interview - Alpheus 0. Powell)

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

The following information was received 12 August 1947 from Mr.
Alpheus 0, Powell, 28 Redwood Road, Wew Hyde Park, Long Island, relative
to the sighting of a possible flying dise 4 August 1947,

On 4 August 1947, Mr Powell, an Airlines Captain with Pan American
Airways, Inc., was the first pilot of a Constellation type aircraft on «a
flight from Gander, Newfoundland, to La Guardia Field, New York. Mr. Powell
took over the aircraft at Gander, Newfoundland and departed at approximately
1250 P.M., Eastern Daylight Saving Time for La Guardia Field, New York. At
1600 P.M., at a position approximately midway between the Everett (Mass) fan
Marker and the Bedford Radio Beacon (Everett is 3 miles HW of Boston, Mass.,
and Bedford is 15 miles NW of the same city) both Mr Powell and Mr W. White,
navigator on this trip, sighted unidentifieble flying objects. To the best
of Mr. Powell's knowledge, the following weather conditions existed at that
times Visibility was goods cloud coverage was from 6-8/l0ths, with tops at
10,000 feet; end the wind at the 8,000 foot level was estimated as being
270/25 miles per hour, The sircraft was at 8,000 feet; airspeed 265 mph;
and the course was 244 degrees, magnetic.

Mr White, who was sitting in the co-pilots seat (the right side of
the cockpit) first called Mr. Powell's attention to a bright orange objeot,,
which was on the right side of the plane, end slightly below the level of the
airereft, Mr Powell was unable to see the object, as he had no visibility to
the right and down, from his position, Mr Powell immediately glanced out his
side window and noticed, at a 45° angle to the left, and wmidentified flying
abject. It was about one mile away at an altitude of approximately 7,500
feet. Mr Powell banked to obtein a better view of the object. The object
was under observation for approximately 50 seconds, and during this time was
viewed by Mr Powell, Mr Powell described the object as being about the length
of a P-40 fuselage, blunt at both ends, cylindrical in shape, and having a
bright orange hue. Mr Powell stated that the object had a definite shape, and
that there was no suggestion of gaseous dissipation as there would be if the
orange color were the exhaust from a rocket, or a jet aircraft. Mr Powell
estimated the course of the-objest to be 200° magnetic, and that the object
was travelling at approximately 160 mph. Mr Powell lost sight of the object,
when a cloud came between the aircraft and the object. The pursuit of the
object was not continued, inasmuch as it would have necessitated a departure
from the established airways,

in conjunction with contract flying for the AAF. Mr White states that he
has flown with Mr Powell on a mumber of occasions, and he considers him
te be a very stable persons completely reliable, and not given to

"flights of fancy".

Related Report: See Summary of Information, 12 September 1947, Hq ADC,
subject, “Unidentified Flying Objects” (interview ~- Alpheus 0. Powell).

Previous Distribution:

- None
Evaluation

Distribution

ef source of information

~- AAFP (3 copies)
C

~ ADC (2 copies)

AGENTS WOTES: Mr. Ae 0. Powell is a graduate of the Aviation Cadet Flying
Training Program, having graduated from Maxwell Field, Alabama, with the
Class of 41-C, Since graduation, Mr, Powell has flown for Pan American
Airways and, at this date, has over 4,000 command pilot hours to his credit,
Mr. Powell eppears to be a calm, intelligent individual, not given to

flights of fancy, or easily swayed by what he has previously read in the
newspapers as regards reports of this type. Mr, Powell has a fear of publi-
city and seemed hesitant to even tell his story lest he become the object of
ridicule. Mr Powell was questioned as to the possibility that what he
sighted might have been a tow target, a pilot balloon, or a radiosonic device
used for meteorological purposes. Mr Powell stated that he has seen numerous
pilot balloons, radiosonic devices and tow targets, while on flights; the
object observed on this flight definitely was not one of them,

Evaluation
Previous Distribution:
- None of source of information

C 3

Distribution
- AAFP (3 copies)
~ ADC (2 copies)

Report on Loc “FP Disc"
D333.5 DW (8 Jul 47 - 2nd Ind
HQ., AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, Mitchel Field, New York, 25 July 1947.

TO: Commanding General, Army Air Forces, Washington 25, D. C.
ATTN: AC/AS=2

Forwarded for your information.

Colonel, GSC
Asst Chief of Staff-Intell.

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

J2 eZ? [Af F ~ rs , pay .
* 4Furnished by the U, 6. Weather

For Birmingham and Yic‘nity-

* Partly cloudy and warm today, to

night and tomorrow with a few

scattered showers this afternoon.

High today 86, low tonight 70, high
tomorrow 90.

“* PRICE: 5 CENTS

‘Flying Saucers’ Reported
From 39: States, But Seem

To Be Concentrated Here
, , City Is Baffled By
Dazzling Display
Of: Spooky Discs

The strange things that have
been in night skies since June 25,
were over Birmingham last night.

On one thing everyone who has
seen the mysterious objects agree
—they are round, saucer-like. After
that, every story differs. Each of
the hundreds. of callers who re-
ported witnessing the baffling sky
demonstrations here last night had
a@ different version of what they

Saw.
Some said the objects were

, some small. They were mov-

at great speed. They were sus-

in the air. There was sound

with their movements. They

But whatever the things are that
have set the nation agog since first
reported 12 days ago by a man in
Washington State, they definitely
were over thé Magic City last night.
It_ seems, in fact, that more Bir
mingham residents saw the objects
than in any other place.

- *-s *

REPORTS BEGAN coming into
the Age-Herald city room afound
8 o’clock last night. For more than
an hour thereafter, the place was
bedlam. The switchboard operators

copy readers —
CAMERA HERE CATCHES “FLYING §SAUCER”—Robert Cross- |everyone in the place was called
land, Age-Herald copy reader, has camera proof that the much-dis- [into action.
cussed flying discs were over Birmingham last night. The picture Reports canmie in from Edgewood,
above was made by Mr. Crossland at 8:37 p.m. last night at his home | Mountain Brook, Avondale, South-
at 29th Street and Highland Avenue. He said he gave the filme /side, Fairfield, Pratt City, West
15-second exposure. ; ™.| End, Central Park, Bessemer.
~ abun Let There was fear, excitement, hor-
ror, skepticism the -vefces. One

aeaoew the oh

Tay 1

Ne Gee

f gut fy be i

3s Fy #3
be iM

qe igt2 v8
38 ML

when the pita
ale ‘ty aroun elena

Hh tah.

In fact, th
the show

‘ood, solid citize

ng of calling
Bowl tonight, “The

e demonstration. ee

eka he
bee om,

salle

itt |

ana 8

2,
ht. Suey
yesterday

wn
Warrior River.

ported seeing the
discs or saucers last nig
seen

West End, W

side,
semer re

Seeing Mysterious Disc:
Residents of East Lak

one

Lake, hear-|\

resident of East

* *

‘alll;

S-?-A-9-M-E-N-T

I, Staff Sergeant Ira L. Livingston, RA 14 153 972, Air Corns, have
approximately 250 hors flying time as vilot and Armorer Gunner have
the following statement to make concerning the. annearence of "Plying Discs"
in the vicinity of Rirmingham, Alabama.

At 2045 hours, 6 July 1947, while I was estine summer at my residence

at 1354 Meadow Lane, Green Acres, Birmingham, Alabama, my next door neizhbor,
Mr. Herman M. SookwWel!, called for me to come to the front door that there were
some "Flying ™iscs" outside. Immediately T went out in the front vara to
observe the objects. The objects anneared to the West of Birmingham traveling
in a South Bastern @irection. They cnrnenred to be onvnroximately 2900 feet
above the horizon at 2 5 degree angle from where T wes standing at an un-
estimated distance awey. The objects smeared to be apnroximately two (2)
feet in diameter, round in shane, vroducing nm dim glow of lizht ond treveling
at an estimatda.sneed of five (5) to six (6) hundred miles ver hour.

The objects or object anvenred to be traveling in » definite sre rather then
straight and as soon as one wes out of sight another would annear behind

it, but not always in the s=me vath. I saw one that seemed to come streight
uv. The view of where it came from was obstructed by © nearby house; and
when it reached the altitude of avvroximately 2000feet, it started off in

the same direction as the others. I did not at any time see any more than
one at the time and even. though there could have been only one, my rerennel
belief is that there were seven (7) to ten (19). ‘The Discs were silent and
avveared to be composed of a single light.

Qu A. deen qa

Ira L. Livingston
Steff Serzeant, RA 14 153 972

Subscribed end sworn to before me thie 7th day of July 1917.

-

Mee Filan
JAMES L. M&CFARLANE

lst Lt. Ac

Asst Adj.

is

Whe-7- fo}

HEADQUARTERS, WEWFOUNDLAND BASE COMMAND 3/ 3
eth DIVISION, AIR TRANSPORT COMMAND /@ao

\c . TE . FORT PEPP F
hei t CSOT

tH REPLY REFER Shanon’ ie es wre, Tai

SUBJECT: Letter of Trensaittel,

sy
‘ey. ¥ :
at

> a

TO 8: Commanding General,
Atlantic Division, ATC,
Fort ng Island, N. Y.
(ATTENTION: » Intelligence)

Reference Letter of Transnit
1947, with four (4) ineclosures (Inc
Sightings of "flying seucers"; and Inclosure 4,
stable KEARSEY), transmitted conan —— Final ae of S
"flying eaucers® in Newfoundland, which occurred at Harmon
ville, Newfoundland at 03452, 23 "aay 1947.6

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

Stason Sn Ller
MARION C. MILLER,
Captain, Air Corps,

.1 Inels 40/8, Intelligence,

' Final Rpt of Sighting, 23 Jul 47 :

lst Ind. ;
MQ, ATLANTIC DIVISION, ATC, FORT TOTTEN, L.I., NEW YORK 6 Aug 47

TO: Commanding General, Air Transport Command, Washington 25, D.C.
ATTN: Chief of Staff

Forwarded in accordance with amet ons outlined in
TWX C95, your Headquarters.

Y Incl:
n/c

CONFIDENTIAL

1
lan {Ping

, d am tl DPR e og
RESTR iC | < Leu REPORT OF SIGHTING) / ‘

- «bl
a. ee Fae

1. Or ganization: 1388th AAF Base Unit
APO 86, c/o Postmaster, New York, N,Y. °

Sighting Strange intermittent flashes that may tie in
with "Flying Discs”.

Place Harmon Field, Stephenville, Jewfoundland.
Time 03452, 23 July 19h7.
Altitude Approximately 10,000 feet high.

Weather High scattered condition; visibility better
than fifteen (15) miles.

Heading From South, heading NNE (approximately 30° )

Speed High velocity; stated to be faster than a
conventional airplane.

Description : The observers saw a light which at first appeared
to be a shooting star or airplane. It appeared
agein, and a mumber of intermittant flashes were
seen for a period of approximately three (3) minutes.
The flashes were reddish in color. Observers said it
was not a falling star because it did not appear as
such; nor was it an airplane, because manoeuvers were
too abrupt and there was no noise of a motor,

Miss Patricia Abbott, (Newfountland National) Government
Employee and Lt. Hammaker, “Navigator and Public Relat-
ions Officer.

The informants (noted in Par.10) were walking when they
noticed a peculiar reddish light. Both Miss Abtctt and
Lt. Hammaker stated that at first, they thought it was
a falling star, but if left no streak. It appeared
again; they thought it might be a plane flying at a
very high altitude. After observing its menceuvers,
they concluded, because of the silence (no hum of motor)
ani abrupt darts of the light, it was definately not

an airplane. Neither Miss Abbott nor It. Eammaker hai
seen anythirg like it before.

IZ, H. SMITH
Captain, Air Corps,

Intelligence Officer.

- eee .
z wre “eg +
t r

4
RESTRICTED.
eee

*

bi HEADQUARTERS ©

’ Newfoundland Base Command, ATID-ATC
Fort Pepperrell, Newfoundland

APO 862, ¢/o Postmaster, New York, NW. Y.

a , 28 July 1947
eo aa ae .

SUBJECT: Letter of Transaittel.

eared a

: 1. Transmitted herewith, as inclosures 1, 2 and 3, are Final
Reports of Sightings of "flying saucers* in Newfoundland and vicinity
listed as follows:

Final Report of Sighting - 20002, 10 July 1947

® ® ® ® = 0030Z, 11 July 1947

bd ‘ ® ® ba - 0015Z, 20 July 1947

2. Reference TH - EN 18469, this headquarters, dated 1217302

July 1947, regarding sightings of "flying saucers" by Constable ERIC
KEARSEY, Newfoundland » St Grand Falls, Newfoundland, on
the night of 9 July 1947, attached herewith, as inclosure 4, is signed
statement of this sighting by Constable KEARSEY.

Island,
(ATTENTION: 40/S, Intelligence

Org.
Place
Time
Altitude |
Weather
Heading
Speed
Shape &

- © +6 © © © of of

w
el
N
@
-

Color 3
Photographs:

Reperted By:

General

~ >>
|S coma ceed tates 4

FINAL REPORT OF SIGHTINGscthory+y cec ee

/ *
2 Aes. ~ ey
Fo Ee : < <tc OK YS

1388th AAF BU, NEC, ATLD, ATC. Harmon Field, Newfoundland.
Flying Dise or other airborne object.

Approx six (6) miles SSW of Harmon Field.

2000/7, 10 July 1947

B— 10,000 ft.

Clear, Scattered Cumlus & - 10, 000 ft.

NNE on horizontal course.

Very high velocity. .

Circular like a wkeel, estimated to be same size as a (-54
as seen from 10, 000 ft.

Translucent or Silvery, left a Yluish Plack trail approx

15 miles long.

vr. Robert W. Leidy reported that he took two (2) Kodachrome
snap shots of the trail.

Yr. John N. Merhman, TWA mechanic; Wr. John W. Woodruff,
PAA mechanic; and Wr. Robert E. Leidy, PAA mechanic reported
the above facts to the Intelligence Officer on 15 July 1947.
A Flash Report was TWX ed to : Action copy Commanding
General, Hq. ATC, Attn. Asst. Chief of Staff, Intelligence.
Info copies: Commanding Generals Hq. ATLD and Ha. NEC
Vister's Merhman, Woodruff, and Leidy were enroute from
Stephenville Crossing to Harmon Field at the time of the
sighting. Mr. Woodruff was the first to see the Disc, it
appeared to rent or split the clouds thru which it passed
and left a Pluish Black trail approx. fifteen (15) miles.
long behind it. The trail was similar to the afterglow of
a powerful landing light or search light beam after it is
suddenly switched off. lhe object maintained a straight and
horizontal course according to Mr. Merhman and Mr. Woodruff,
ur. ‘Leidy stated it appeared to be on a great curved course
on a horizontal plane. The object disappeared into the
North Northeast. Mr. Leidy says he took two (2) Kodachrome
Photographs of the trail. The film has been transmitted

to the Asst. Chief of Staff, Intelligence, tew6aund land
Base Command for processing.

CAPT. A.C.
Intelligence Officer

RESTRICTED
CONPRENHAL—

Orcy
oy ee |

1. Organisation:

2. Sighting
3. Place
he Time
S. Altitude
6. Weather
7. Heading

8. Speed

9. Shape & Size:

10. Color

11. Reported by :

a = =
T) FINAL REPORT OF Wb:

A 7

1388th AAF Rase Unit
APO 86, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y.

Flying Lise or other airborne object.

Codroy, Newroundland, 59°03' W Long.; 17°50" N Lat.
00302 hours, 11 July 1947.

Approximately 6,000 feet.

Clear; at dusk.

From northwest heading eastward,

Very high velocity.

Dise shaped; was reported as being the size of a
barrel-head, dinner-plate and size of a plane
that is flying high. The trail gave the whole
object the appearance of a cone.

Flame colored with a trail of a lighter flame color.

Mr. John Legge, Mr. Wm. Evans and Albert Samms of
Codroy, Newfoundland,

Mr. Legge and Mr. Evans were standing outside Mr. Legge's
store when they both sighted the object. Both men stated
that the disc was very bright with an after-rlow which
made the object look like a cone. It was a very clear
night. In spite of the high velocity of the flying
object, they said they could not possibly heve mistaken
it for a plane or a falling star. Besides the two men,
the object was sighted by Albert Samms; he reported what
he had seen to his mother. Mrs. Samms stated that Albert
was in no way alarmed about it, he was alone and on his
way home when he sighted it, and watched it while it was
in sight. Albert was quite convinced from the color and
behaviour of the object that it was not a plane, but
definately some flying object.

The informant, Mr. Legge, is believed to be reliable.

He is a man of approximately forty; has had considerable
experience as foreman of Buchans Mine, Newfoundland, where
he was in charge of three hundred men. During the war,
Mr. Legge was a mamber of a civilian volunteer Air
Detection Corps. With that >» ckzround, Wr. Legre stated
that he felt sure that the object he had seen was some-
thing new which he had never seen before.

Final Report of Sighting GANEIDENTINN

General cont'ds

blbert Samma is a twelve year old boy. He was alone
when he saw the flying object, he was very definite
that ‘e nad never seen anything like it before. His
mother, Mrs. Semms, is the Pest Mistress of the town,
and after heering Albert's description, felt that it
answered to thé description of a “Flying Disc", Mr.
Legge reported his sighting shortly afterwards to Mrs.
Sammg becuse he was sure it shonld be made known to
her in order that the incident might be reported hy
telegram immediately.

There was one other sighting reported from a iver
Warden at South Branch. The man could not be cone
tucted at time of interviews with other parties.
However, a second-hand description of his sighting
was obtained, and it agreed with the sightings at
Codroy.

WILLIAM H. SMITH
Captein, Air Corps,
Intelligence Officere

CONFIDENTIAL

FINAL REPORT OF SIGHTING

Organization: 1388th AAF Base Unit
APO 86h, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y.

Sighting Flying Dise or other Airborne Obfect,

Place On board Steamship "BURGEO" enroute from Sydney,
Nova Scotia to Port ary Basques, Newfoundland,
about one hour out from Sydnev,

0015Z 20 July 1917.
30° off the horizon at an estinrated quart’ mile range.
Clear amd dark,

¢ NNE (30° East of True North) on horizontal plane.

s High velocity, stated to be faster than a tracer bullet.

Description : Observers did not see the object, they saw its flashes
and all four observers agreed there were four (Lh) or
five (5) flashes approximately one (1) second apart
and equidistant. The flashes were said to be silvery
to reddish in color, an? were described by two observ-
ers to be like those of a Fire Fly only larger and at
equal intervals, and did not look like a shootine star

a or airplane.

10, Reported by: Messrs Maitland, Larkin, Douglas and Hamilton of
Hamilton, Metcalfe and Kansas City Bridge Companies
which concern is doing the construction at Harmon Field.

The four gentlemen (noted in Par.10) and Captain Gullage,
Master of the "Burgeo", were standing on the starboard
deck, and as the Captain was trying t) djescribe a previous
sighting, he saw the flashes; the other four gentlemen
also saw them es described herein, and believed that it
was not a meteorite or airplane because of its speed,
color, and evenly spaced discharges or flashes,

Ceptain Gullage told the four gentlemen that he had seen
the same thing at approximately the same time and location
(ship's position) on the evening of 15 July 197, except
at that time, the object or flashes were travelinz faster
and frequently €hanging course (he said it changed course
abruptly several anes} and was headed generally to the

RESI nies -

Final Repor*

General cont'd : SSW, The Captain also told the four gentlenen
that he was willing to make a complete report
if the information 4s desired for official
purposes.

WiLLIAM H. SMITH
Captain, Air Corps
Intelligence Officer.

:
:

f it, I°4 say it was about the sise of a 5% or a

zimate altitude of the clouds?
feet to 10,000 fect.

the
fron

wae appre
6000
About how big 414 it appear te you?

From the height o

od dd dd

Q.
A.

We

r?

re

Pr?

Q
A.
Q
&.
Q.
a.
Q.
he

RESTRICTED |
CONEDENTA—

Interrogation of John B. Woodruff (Cont'd)

What kind of a break 4id it make in the cloudis?-
It cat a straight path right through the eloud.

Did it leave a trail?
Yes, it left a trail dark Dluceish in color similar to a high

vawer
Light. The trail was from approximately fifteen (15) to twenty

Have you ever seen a meteor?
Yes.

De you think this was a meteor?
Bo, I don't think so, it was cat too clean, This was as straignt
aS an arrow.

What was the course of the edject?
Well, looking at the map I'd say North North Bact.

Rave you been verking around sirslancs long sacngh to know the
en
‘es.

Pow. long have you been working around aircraft!
Seven (7) years.

Were you in the Arny during the time of the War?
Ro.

Did you take any pictures?
Bo, I did not, but ome of the boys took sone,

De you think the pictures will show up?
Yes, it was an ideal dey for pictures.
iP ae

6 . ft. ?
LY Fw CY ort.

Chief Mechanic
Pan American Airways

Sworn and subdecribded to before me

this /7 day of July 1947. | &

« <

HRADQUARTERS 1366TH AAFP BASE UNIT “4 -—
WEWFOUNILAND BASE COMMAND

, ATLD.AeG
APO 864, c/o Postmaster, New York, B. Y.

16 July 19%7

Interrogation of JON 3. MEHRMAN, JR., Supervisor and Mechanic,
Trans World Airvays, Harmon Field, Nevfoundlend, taken at 1430 EIT,
16 July 1947, by Captain William H. Smith, AC, Intelligence Officer.

How long have you been associated with aircraft and aviation?
Since approximately 1935.

Were you in the Army during the Var?
Yes.

re Pre

What 444 you do in the Arny?
Aerial Gunner.

Did your job during the war entail you to de able to judge distances
and sises of objects and ranges?
Yes.

On the evening of 10 duly 1947, 414 you see one of the so called

"Flying Disks" or an object in the sky?

Tes, we were coming up over the mountain between here and Stephen-
ville Crossing. The car was going up hill and we could see the sky
through the windshield. Mr. Woodruff said "look at the cut in the
sky". I looked up and saw a blueish black vapor trail,

Did you see the object?
“Bo, I just saw the trail as it was left behind.

Cam you describe the effect the odject hed on the cloud formation?
The clouds were very scattered and were about from 5000 feet to
10,000 feet, the odject passed through and cut the dloud leaving a
ep where you could see the blue sky, like a knife had out it. The
eiges were feathered similar te a weld, as if you cut a weld in half.

Did the object appear to be descending, ascending, or horisontal?
It was horizontal seemed to remain on atrue course.

> © re

£

estimate as to the sise of the object?
414 not see the odject.

voys
eet

the
evj

One of
that the

Cl

very easily distingnished from the

in coler,
Leidy was using?
Leidy caw the Disk or object?
RESTRICTED

mame of the man whe took the photograph!

fem shaped?

re or less a band across the sky in ao straight path.

know what type of fils ir

make a noise?

know whether Mr.
@ believe se.

@ESTRICTED e

STATEMENT OF MR. WM. EVANS, CORDROY{ NEWFOUNDLAND. TAKEN BY
MERCEDES BURKE OF THE INTELLIGENCE OFFICE} HARMON FIELD, NaW-
FOUNDLAND. 17 July 1947.

At approximately 10 e'elock in the evening of 10 July 1947,
I was standing eutside Mr. Leggo'’s store talking with him. We
beth saw this thing desh aeross the sky. I eouldn't be eceurate
about the directions. If it was a shooting ster, I'd never seen
one as large before, and it was mueh brighter than anything I've
ever seen in the skye It looked to be a round object, I eouldn't
say it was anything else but round; it‘had a teil on it whieh
showed yellowish, but not as bright as the eirele which appeared
and nearest I could deseribe it would be sort of red and yellon.
The streak behind, I would say, was little over a yard long; the
eirele looked te be about the size of a large dinner plate. It
went so fest, it was hardly in sight before it disappeared. I
eould not give any idea of the height; all I ean say is it was
mueh eloser than a shooting star. and travelling eat a great speed.
Whatever it was it was flying through the air, it wasn't just
a streak seross the sky. To me it wasn't in any way like a
shooting star, and I am sure it wasn't an airoplane. I called it
a "FLYING SAUCER” beeause it seemed exactly like what we had been
hearing so mueh about on the radio.

‘Me S)

———

Witness: + a: &

Witness: Whrtehe- Aisa

STATEMENT OF ALBERT SAMMS, CORDROY, NZWFOUNLLAND. TAKEN BY
MERCEDES BURKE OF THE INTELLIGENCE OFFICE, HANMON FIELD WNEW-
POUNDLAND. 17 duly 1947.

Last Thursday night I was out by our house, I happened te
look up and saw what I thought was an airoplane. It-was flying
at the height of a plane that is flying high. Then I thought
it leoked strange for an airoplane, beeause it wes all lit up
so bright, planes do have a light or two, but this thing was very
bright - sort of a bright reddish yellow. I sew it only for a
minute because it was travelling at a teriffie «peed. It shot
out of sight so quiekly I thought it strange if it was an airop-
jane. TH@H, I remembered what I'd been hearing about "F¥LYIND
SAUCERS” I ran in and told my mother.

iene 0- Tw f=

i Jf fax Cede, parka

Witness:

NEWFOUNDLAND CONSTABULARY

STATION Grand Falls,
DATE July 13th, 1947..

SUBJECT Re:- strange objects seen flying over Grand
Falls on night of July 9th. at approx.

Sirs

I respectfully report for your information that on
‘ednesday night, 9th. inst. I arrived home from
duty at approx. 11.30.

Upon arrival at home I joined ay wife, my mother-in-law
and Mr. John Jackman a resident of St. John's and friend
of the family, who were sitting on the front steps of

the house. I was asked by my wife if I had seen

"flying saucers" I thought she was joking and replied
that I had seen nothin, flying. Jac and my mother-
in-law then told me that they had really seen four objects
flying in an easterly direction just before I arrived,

I asked them to describe what they had seen. Jackman said
that four round shaped figures had passed overhead at a
terrific speed and were flying side by dide.

On looking skywerds again my wife, Jackman, and myself
saw a object which I would describe as be @ huge je
fish flash across the the sky. It would be difiicuit to
determine its height ind speed owing to the brief period
it was visible. it's colour also would be hard to say,

but there seemed to be « phosphorus glow about it, it

was round in shape and about the size of a barrel head,

it appeared to be flying in a rocking motion.

This sir, is about all I can say about the matter, we
continued to sean the sky for about a half hour but no

sign of them were seen again,
—

ie = 2g . 4 L1qs
Constable. Aj

Chief Police.

usb “gah Kea.

LeStr @ [BGe, JePey
Chief of Police.

Lo@tnange E@Gey JoPey 9 b

Maly

iy 2 ee

——

STATION Grand Falls,
Q . - DATE July 13th, 1947. .

SUBJECT Re;- strange objects seen over Grand
:; Falls on ht of July e at approx.

Sirs

I respectful t for your information that on
Wednesday night, othe inst. I arrived home from
duty at approx. 11.30. |

Upon arrival at home I joined may wife, ay eather tains
and Mr. John Jackman a President of St. John's and friend
ef the family, who were sitt on the front steps of
the house, I was asked b my wife if I had seen
"flying saucers" I tho she wee cokes sing © and replied
that I had seen nothin: f and my mother-
in-law then told me that y bea seen four obj eete
flying in an easterly direction Tests ore I arrived,
I asked them to describe what they had seen. Pnidoeae said
that four round shaped figures = iae'ty as overhead at @
Se Losktae fsende manta ife — kman, “and if

8 a ‘we ac myse
saw a object which I “would describe as be jeliy-
fish flash across the the e It would Bo
determine its hdight and spe * owing te the brief
it was visible. it's colour also would be hard to $2 Pave
but there seemed to be a phosphorus glow about it, 4
was pone 2h oueet nes aest @ size of a barrel
it appeared to be flying in a rocking motion.

eahe Sis is about ell I can s about a half hour bat’ D
to sean the esky for a about a half

sign of them were seen again,
fe&ea table. “y

>

LeStr. a og JeP. |
ee See “

“‘ijlai ie.

LS Eeq. # JePoy
Chief of Police.

From detailed study of reports selected for their impression of
veracity and reliability, several conclusions have been formed:

. (a) This "flying saucer" situation is not all imaginary or seeing
too much in some natural phenomenon, Something is really flying around.

‘
(b) Lack of topside inquiries, when compared to the prompt and
demanding inquiries that have originated topside upon former events,

give more than ordinary weight to the péssibility that this is a domestic
project, about which the President, etc. know,

(c) Whatever the objects are, this much can be said of their physical
appearance:

1, The surfaced of these objects is metallic, indicating a metallic
skin, at least.

2. When a trail is observed, it is lightly colored, a Blue-Brown
haze, that is similar to a rocket engine's exhaust. Contrary to a rocket
of the solid type, one observation indicates that the fuel may be throttled
which would indicate a liquid rocket engine.

3. As to shape, all observations state thut the object is cireular
or at least elliptical, flat on the bottom and slightly domed on the top.
The size estimates place it somewhere near the size of a C-54 or a Constellation,

4. Some reports describe two tabs, located at the rear and
symetrical about the time axis of flight motion.

5. Flights hase been reported, from three to nine of them, flying
good-formation on each other, with speeds always above 300 knobs.

6. The discs oscillate laterally while flying along, which could
be snaking.

CONFIDENTIAL

BEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE f (6

Office of the Assistant Chief of Steff, A-2
Intelligence
“Hamilton Field, California

4AFDA 25 August 1947
333.5/1208-1

SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Disc.

Headquarters, Army Air Forces, Washinrton 25, D. C.
ATTENTION: AC of AS-2

The attached true copy of the letter of Mr. F. %. Johnson of
Oregon, was received by this officer 22 Aurust 1947.

Your attention is invited to the similarity of statement by
“ry. Johnson and Mre Arnold.

3e This letter is being referred this date to the Special Agent

In Charge, FRI, Sen Francisco, for eny investigetion they may care to
make.

f 7
L >) a (he f .
HONALD L.| SPRINGER”
Lt. Colonel, GSC

AC of S, Aw#-2

1 Incl:
Cy of ltr fr.F.M.Johnson

\ (in dup)

CONFIDENTIAL

PORTLAND, OREGON, August 20th 1947

Lt. Col. Donald L. Springer, Assistant Starr

Sir. Saw in the portland paper a short time ago in regards to
an article in regards to the so called flying disc having any basis
of fact. I can say am a prospector and was in the Mt Adams district
on dune 24th the day Kennet Arnold of 30ise Idaho claims he saw a
formation of flying disc. And i saw the same flyin- objects at about
the same time. Having a telescope with me at the time i can asure you
they are real and noting like them I ever saw before they did not pass
verry high over where I was standing at the the time, plobly 1000 ft.
they were Round about 30 foot in dimater tapering sharply to a point in °
the head end in an oval shape. with a bright top surface. I did not
hear any noise as you would from a plane. But there was an object in
the tail end looked like a big hand of a clock shifting from side to
side like a big magenet. ‘iere speed as far as i know seemed to be
greater than snything I ever saw. last veiw I cot of the objects they
were standing on edge Banking in a Cloud.

Yours Respectfully

/s/ F. M. Johnson
106 No. West lst Ave
Portland, Oregon

NALD L. SPRINGER
Lt. Colonel, GSC,
AC of 3, A=2/

rT.

PORTLAND, OXEGUN
30,July 1947 Kat

C-E-H-T-1-¥—I-C—A=T=is

un 30 July 197 Mr xichard xankin, 634 N. s. Simpson Street,
a phe Oregon was intervi ewed by this agent and stated in substance as
follows: .

My name is Richard: Rankin, I am? years old and have flowm since

I was nineteen years old, I first soloed in m air craft in 1919. I mve flow
over all the western parts of the United States many times and have mapped
all of the western part of the United States during the years before the

late war for the US Forest Service. I am familiar with almost every part of
the western United States, During a great part of my life I have dome stunt
flying for air shows and various other types of aeronautical exhibitions. My
brother was "Tex''Rankin who was quite well known in both civilian and Militazy
flying circles for many years before his death and during the late war ran
thousands of Flying Cadets through primary training schools owmed and oper=
atdd by him. To date I mve accomplished 7000 hours in the air as pilot of
both civilian and Military aircraft. I an well acquainted with most articles
that one would see in the air and I feel that I am well qualified to say
when I see articles flying through the air, although I would not attempt to
say that I am infallable and state that I could definitely identify every -
object that might be flying through th air. The following is.an account of
what I saw on 14 June 197 from the yard of my home at 1% South "Lt" St,
Bakersfield, California.

At approximately 1200 noon on the ll: of June I was lying in the
front yard of my home. There was a lad mowing the lam at the time, I looked
up into the sky and saw ten articles flying from the South to th North at what
T wld judge to be 6500 ft. Tle objects were flying at approximately what I
would judge to be 350 miles per ho&r,. As I mv stated before, I have done
quite a lot of map work for the US Forest service. i iMstinctly remember that
at the time I saw the articles I mentioned it to the lad who was mowing the
lawn at the time, I told the lad that the objects were in all probability
some sort of army or Navy test planes from the nearby test centers on the
4eserts of Southern California, Having quite a kmowledge of aircraft in
general I attempted to explain to the lad mowing the lavm that th objects
were probebly on sane sort of training mission for either the Arny or Navye
At that time I did not give the slightest’ thor ght to anything but that the
objects were some sort of test ship for the Goverment services, The ofkects
resembled the pictures that I have seen of the IFS%1, the so allied
Flapjck aickk that the avy is testing. After the objects @

roceeded into the house and had my noon meal, At approximately 1415 wen

ck into the yard to sit and Mie in the shade. At this time the objects re-
appeared going from Hosth to South, although this time there were only seven
of the articles, When I first saw the otig nal ten objects they were flying
ina *Y" formation with one cbgct seemingly star, gling in the rear of the
formation. When the objects apperaed ‘le second time they were still in the
wy formation although there was only seven d the at this time. i
remember 4 this time that I told the lad, ho was s ill wring on th lam,
that pobably three of the objects had poce ded back to ther ’ na aiff-
erent course. I acfually thought that thi was
objects hd@ probably cone back ¢ c mountains
from Bakersfield. A week or so later when 1 of ur Kenn Arnold claiming

that he had seen articles flyin

Washington I realized that the articles that -I saw

I was still reluctant anyone

ably say that I was crazy, Afte the “tnd

editor of the "Oregonian", a ree eae Oregon newspaper. At this

in Portland for the remainder £ the nipas?. ‘The 4eeelis fae ommaces
with weg editor of ‘the paper i put, forth in the accompanying nonrrsees
article,

x

I fully realize that Bhis is a broad statement-in view of the fact
that there bs been @ much publicity teuodeamm put forth in various
dy gee in every nemeect and I am ff

Some sort of flying machines
“a or to vthere thay were going. I say
city or personal gain,

Portland, Oregon
30 duly 1947

Pilot Rec
Dick Rankin Tells
Of Odd Aircratt

More reports of “flying flap-
jacks” turned up Wednesday,
one from no less than Dick
Rankin, brother of the late Tex
Rankin, and himself an expe
rienced pilot of more than 7000
hours’ flying time.

Rankin, who is recovering
from an old back injury re
|ceived in an automobile acci-
dent, came to Portland over
the week end to spend the sum-
| mer. He saw the “silver cau-
cers” over Bakersfield, Cal.

lawn sun bathing, he told The
Oregonian.

“I hesitated to say much
about them,” Rankin said, “un-
til I noticed all the hullabaloo
in the papers. I puzzled over
their strange shape for a while
and finally concluded that they
were the navy’s ne@® XF5U-1
flying flagjacks, which are thin
and round, with twin propellers
and stubby tail.”

Only One XF5U-1 Built

' (The navy and the manufac
turer have announced official-
ly that only one such machine
was built and that it never left
Connecticut.

“These planes were flying
high, maybe 9000 feet, and fair
ly fast, about 300 or 400 miles
an hour. I first counted ten of
them in formation, going north.
About 2:15 P. M. they returned
on the reverse course, headed
south, But there were only sev-
en in the formation.

“They were not weaving or
| bobbing in formation I couldn't

|; make out the number or loca-

|tion of their propellers and |!
couldn't distinguish any wings |'
or tail. They appeared almost |

round. They looked like pic-
tures of the navy’s flying flap-
jack,” Rankin said.

Rankin, who plans to spend
the summer here at 834 N. E.
Simpson street, is now able to
resume a little flying for fun,
but not commercially, he said.
He now operates a string of
auto courts, nding his win-
ters at Palm Springs.

|June 23, while lying on the |

i

Director FH
5A Butte
‘FLYING Disos

Refer teletype to the Burem dated August 15, 1947.
Bnclosea find the newspaper account carried by the Gwin
Falls, idaho “Pines Neves" on August 15, together th a sheet of paper om which
= GC. URIS attempted to cketeh his impression of the instrument which he claims
have seen.

Concerning URIE's sketches, it may be noted that he believed the
felled outer edge which he attempted to create in hisdrawing to have been about
@ foot through, UXIE likewise believed that the tubinh or exhaust flame which
he and his sons claim to have seen was about a foot through and extended at
least to the back end of the device. ‘The flame did not apres ar te taper off
wi

te widen out toward the back.

not
BILLY and KEITH URIE stated that they could nee a knot on the side of
the device from which the flames were shooting, and that they could see day-

light between the exhaust flame and the side @ the device. The flames did not
ave any Smoke or odor.

The URIE boys thought that the "side view" sketch should show that
device was more sharply angled fron bottom to top, while URIE himself
% that it was more streamlined and curved. URI# e0id that the iastra-
Came 86 & pointed or romded top.

in his notations, URIE mistakenly said that he had seen it on Thure-
- During interview, he stated thet it actually bed been oz Wednesday,
August 13, 1947, vhehe and his sons saw the contrivance about 1100 P.M.

URLZ explained that he had sent his boys to the river to get some
s wat. he thought they were overdue, he went outside his
noticed them about 300 fectaway looking in
te see what he called the flying disc. He edi d he
for a moment before it disappeared behind a hill wich

dy sincere about the incident. He said his
er were in the house at the tine and had not seen the
® trether, whe aleo lives in the Canyon, but his
me and had seen nothing. URIE and his
mever before seen one of the discs,
eared to be a sober, middle-aged man.

JOHN BROSHAN, the “Times News" Feperter who originally furnished
Special Agente with information about the incident, likewise stated that
URIZ appeared completely sincere about the mactine.

was made to locate L. W. HAWKINS, inaemuch
e Who was with HAMING af the time, was interviewed.
BROWI's name was withheld frea the newspaper because KAMINS and
BROW were fishing at Salmon dame while BROUN was supposed to have been
working in Twin Falls.

BROW said simply that he and HAWKINS Could hear a roar. They
looked up and could see two instruments flying at a great height, which
BROW mentioned might have been between feur thousand and six thousend
feet. However, he said he had no idea how large the devices were and
Consequently, they aay have been several miles avay. He said that he and
HAWKINS were satisfied they had seen something and they were very
doubtful that they had seen twe planes.

Regional Newspaper Serving

rand TWIN FALLS, IDAHO, FRIDAY, AUGUST 15, 1947 MRapociaed

Heads Up, Folks! The Dises Are Flying Again

SiDE view BOTTOM VIEW END VIEW i

| This is an artist's conception of the flying disc that A. C. Urie saw | sides, and could well be the inspiration for something new in women’s
sweeping through Snake river canyon six miles west of Blue Lakes hats, such as a “flying saucer” creation, (Drawing by Vic Goertgen-)
,| ranch. It seemed to be powered by jets emiiting a ficry glow on both staff engraving) '

pe Se |e *

Flying Saucer Reported Flashing Down Canyon :
At 1,000 Miles Per Hour; Two Others Are Seen}

By JOHN BROSNAN ) the fast-flying objects the nation , scription of the flying discs seen by » come concerned about what was de--
Ju as Magic Valley and the|has yet produced him and his son, Keith, 8, and Billy, | laying them, and had walked down
nation were starting to let go of The flying saucer Urie saw was | 10 | toward the river to see if they were

lamppost after reeling under a/ skimming along through Snake river | “I obtained a close-up view of | all right :
' welter of flying saucer reports, two|canyon at a height of about 75 | the flying saucer as it passed by the | “I had a side view at a distance,
'‘lmore Twin Falls county men re-| feet at 1 p.m. Wednesday. At 9:30 | trout farm at 1 p. m. Aug. 13 going | of about 300 feet and almost on a
vived speculation on the mystery | a. m. the same day, L. W. Hawk-|down Snake river canyon at a height | level with the thing,” Urie con-
with vivid descriptions of discs they | ins, Twin Falls county commis-|of about 75 feet from the canyon | tinued. “Two of my boys, Keith
sav |sioner and former county sheriff | floor. I would estimate the speed | and Billy, were below me and they
From A.C. Urie, who operates| from Filer, also saw two circular | at about 1,000 miles per hour.” also saw it at about a 45-degree
the Auger Falls Trout farm six | objects soaring along at a great| Urie explained that the incident langle. They both got a bottom and
miles west of Blue Lakes ranch in height near Salmon dam 40 miles | occurred while the two boys werej|a side view, and we were all look-
Snake river canyon, came perhaps | southwest of Twin Falls coming across the river from the! ing at it from the south side of the

| the most detailed account of one ot | Here is Urie's eye-witness de-j| north side in a boat. He had be- |

(Continued on Page 8 Column 6)

HEADQUARTERS
FLYING DIVISION, AIR TRAINING COMMAND

Office of the Commanding General iF

Randolph Field, Texas
10 duly 1947
333.5
SUBJECT: Unidentifiable Objects

TOs

Commanding General
Tenth Air Porce

Brooks Field, Texas
Attn: ACofS, A-2

1. The inclosed MOIC is forwarded for your information.

2. In the event that IA. £, B. Armstrong has been interviewed 3
by your Headquarters, request that a copy of the MOIC be furnished
to this Headquarters,

POR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

1 Ino H. L. CRISIER
Asst. Chief of Staff, 4-2

333.5 lst Ind pe

HBADQUARTERS TENTH AIR FORCE, OFFICE OF THE ASST CHIEF OF STAFF, A-2,
BROOKS FIBLD, SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, 16 July 1947

TO: i General, Flying Division, Air Training Command, Randolph
id., Texas

ATTN: -Aest Chief of Staff, A-2

Inclosed is Memorandum for the Officer in Charge in reference to
Lt. EB. B. “rmstrong, as suggested in paragraph 2, basic communication.

1 Incl ‘\ S.H, MORROW
MOIC, dtd 15 July 47 Colonel, GSC

1 Incl withdrawn \ \ Aswt Chief, of Staff, A-2
MOIC, dtd 7 July 47

Ao a eS ee

UNIDENTIFIABIZ OBJECTS
Williams Fld, Chandler, Aris.
1S duly 1947 ,

MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE:

for Portland, Oregon, the
ipa GUS. on 0 counes ot Bee

sincere in the explamti

Armstrong
ti ng merely stated what he saw and
es te wha white objects were.

lawrense R. King, Jr, Special Agent, CIC, ADC

UNIDENTIFIABLE OBJECT:
WILLIAMS FIELD, CHANULER,
ARIZONA.

7 duly 1947

MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARCEs

1. Om 1 July 1947, Lt William G, McGinty, USN, 195803, P-80
Student, Williams Field, Chandler, Arizona, was interviewed by

this Agent, and stated in substance: That on 30 June 1947, at about

O90, MST, he was flying at 25,000 feet over Grand Canyon, Arizona, in

a P80 type aircraft. He stated that he was heading south towards Willians
Field, Arizona, when he saw two round objects going at inconceivable
speeds, straight dow, He further stated that his reactions were to

turn away from the objects. He further stated that one of the uniden
tifiable objects followed the other seconds apart, He further stated

that due te the speed of the objects, he could only see that they were
circular, and that they were possible light gray in color, Ne further
stated that it was his opinion that the objects were

eight feet in diameter. In conclusion, he stated that the objects

would haw probably hit the ground approximately twenty-five miles

south of the South Rim of Grand Canyon, Arizona,

AGENT'S NOTES: Lt MeCinty gave his permanent address as: NeAcM.T.Ceo,

Point Hugu, Port Hueneme, Calif,

2. On 1 July 1947, Captain Maleolm 6. Armstrong, 0-7341é68,
Instructor, Single Ingine, "ilifiams Field, Chandler, Arizona, was
interviewed by this Agent and stated in substance: That his brother,
ist Lt S. B. Armstrong, stationed at Hq, 10th AAF, Brooks AiF, Texas
had related to him that he san a formation of unexplainable objects
in the vicinity of Lake Mead, Nev. Captain Amstrong, further stated
that his brother stated the objects were heading south, ami were at
approximately 10,000 feet altitude,

AGENT'S NOTES: Captain Amstrong could not give teo auch infomation
on the objects that his brother had seen. Lt, =. B, Armstrong can be .
contacted at Hq, 10th A\F, Brooks Field, Texas for further information.

Lymn C, Aldrich, Speeial Agent, CIC-AAF, FDTRC
THIS, IS A TRUE COPY

Yni dent tase sy
33305 WW (16 Jul 47 ist Ind.

HQ AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, Mitcnel Field, New Yorx, 21 July 1947.

: Commanding General, Army Air Forces, Washington 25, D, C.
ATTN: AC/AS-2.

1. Forwardea for your information ana utilization.
FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

De) FG cate

Colonel, GSC At Gok.

x ’ Asst Chief of Staff-Intell.

-

» HQ AIR DEFENSE COMUND, Mitcned Field, Mow York, 22 Juiy 1947.

TO: Commanding General, Army Air Forces, Washington 25, D. C.
ATTR: AC

1. Forwarded for your information and utilisation.
POR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

R. Me SMITH
Gelenel, GSC
Ghief of Staff-Intell.

asst

HEADQUARTERS
TENTH AIR FORCE
BROOKS FIELD, SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS

Office of the Assistant VCnief of Staff, A-2
IN REPLY REFER TO:

DC 3335-5

Unidentifiable Objects

Commanding Genera]
Air Defense Commnd >
itchel Field, New York

Tes

ATTN: asst Chief of Staff

le Inelosed herevwit!
to Unidentifiable Objects
sion, Air Train C
as noted in
Charge »

e lo further action i ontempl ' shis tie fat coneernir
4

stigation of this incicen

a

- Xu Rit ‘i

are
nel, GSC

Chief of Staff, A-2

Aae Cade At /AS-2 ]
oF INTEL. 7s ¢ AVE G7
ae 7¢7JZé
2636 Magnolia aAve.,
Los Afigeles 7, Calif.
August 1 1947

Director of Military Intellegence,
War Departmant, Washington 25, D.c.

Dear sir:

On Sunday afternoon, July the Sixth, I observed something very
strange ; it is related --- at least im my own mind-—- with the
phenomena of the "Fabulous Rlying Saucers# and I cannot report on
this second phemomena , without speaking of the first,

As I do not wish to be considered the victim of mass psychology,
& crack—pot or visionary , it is rather hard for me to mzke this
report. I am doing it because 1 consider it my duty.

A newspaper article spoke of the Bureau of Standards as "Having a
finger in the pie " in many experiments so not knowing where to

write or who to write to + wrote to the Bureau, and Mr. Hugh L. Dryd—
en has suggested that you were the one to report to.

I had been amused at accounts of the * flying saucers *. Bveryone

was talking , laughing and joking about themand I did not-believe
in them .

, Hollywood Tarzana Bus was parked at the Tarzana end of the line
and the driver was busy making out his .reports preparatory to making
the return trip./ I was the Only one in the bus and I sat in the
middle of the side next to Ventura so the bus wag parked north and

southa

As I looked to my right » & "Saucer appeared out of nowhere tappar=
ently out of nowhere and it was followed by several others ; they
were of uniform size and spaced at reguler intervals and it seemed
as if they turned a corner from the West and they rolled along

at great speedto the Northward and par¥allel toVentura Boulevard .

AS soon as I becameconvinced that what saw was not an illusion
but what every one was talking about I began to study them and it
was right then that my eyes seemed to be drawn to this other phenoma
in the air between me and the "Saucers",

What I saw was milky white rays in the sunlight that seemed to cris
cross like the search lights do at hight ; it was nothing like the
sun shining on some bright object for the rays were not spaced and
they were not so close together and they cris crossed. However, they
did seem to converge toward a center but they did not meet there .
In, this center --- a radious of about eighteen inches it seemed
from) IT sat, there were spinning objects af some red substance

2

about the color of the semi- precious stone Gornelian: these
fragments were sharp and irregular and shing. they were flying
about as if flying to a magnet . This was momentary and I looked
to see if the "Saucers" were still there. -I saw one or two but
the same thing happened again and 1 saw the second phenomena for
a second . By this time the "Saucers were out of sight.

All the way home I was trying to find some logical explanation for

the "Sa ucers" but my mind kept reverting to the second phenomena

and as 1 dwelt on it I could not help surmising if perhaps these

rays I saw did not come out of the red fragments that were spinning
in the vortez. I couldnt help wondering if this substance had beeh
shot from the "Saucers as theyturned the corner from the west on their
way to the “orth/.

As our army would not be shotinc loadly rays over toward a very
croweded highway and as this whole thing seems fantastic to say
the least, I thought I had better trust some ones Judgement who
really knows what is going onand so you have my report on what
+ really saw, and what I an very curious about.

Thanks to M&. Dryden for his courtesy in letting me know just

who to relate this incident bo, and thanks to you for listening
and I hope that it makes the right kind of impression.

Sincerely yours,

M. Lenore Gorey

APN/KDS/eb

OKLAHOMA CITY AIR MATERIEL AREA
TINKER FIELD
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA

IN REPLY REFER TO:

#372h-1 . 30 July 1947

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECURITY OFFICER, OCAMA

Sabject: DAN NELSON, Attorney-at-Law, 926 Perrine Building
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. :

Re: Flying Saucer Mystery Solved.

On 30 July 1947 DAN NELSON was interviewed at his office, 926 Perrine
_ Building, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, relative to his alleged solving of the
Flying Saucer Mystery.

Subject, whose age is 53, is at present engaged in practicing law and
is the agent for the Dual Parking Meter Company. Subject advised he is
married and has two sons, ages seven and ten, residing at 2613 N.W. 1th
Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
War I,
and that before entering After
leaving the service he finished his education and graduated from the University
of Oklahoma in 1929. He advised that since 1929 he has practiced general
law in both Norman and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Subject stated he notified the War Department letter on 19 J
1947, advising them of his discoveries tee Flying wn

Department as of 29 July 1947, at which time he released his statement to
the Oklahoman," Oklahoma City local newspaper.

Subject advised the basis for his theory concerning the Flying Sa
Mystery was obtained from simple experiments ree ag driv
his

or disc shaped object.
plus the fact that the glass was
not a perfect mirror and passing objects could be seen in relation to the
objects gave them an appearance of great speed.

Subject advised that the vibration of the car gave the objects an
appearance of rotating and that the reflections caused them to appear flat
or saucer shaped. WNEISON stated that any number of objects might be seen
according to the direction that the car is traveling and the number of bright
ob being reflected onto the window. He further stated that these objects

might be seen in an ordinary window in a house according to the lighting

/

bnrel dll x ©

conditions, and that the objects might be either vertical or horizonal. The
subject related that any change in speed of the car resulted in a change in
speed of the object, and that changes of direction resulted in a change in
the angle of travel of the object.

NELSON stated he has not talked to any persons that had actually seen
flying saucers or discs but he believed that these reflections plus the
excitement and hysteria caused by other reports has been the basis for most
flying saucer reports. Subject also stated that this same theory could be
true in relation to flying saucers seen from aircraft.

Attached hereto is a detailed statement by NELSON covering his findings
and explaining his solution to the so-called Flying Saucer Mystery.

KALMAN D. SIMON
C.I., U.S. Army

FLYING SAUCER MYSTERY SOLVED
July 12, 1947.

The most impressive reports of the so-called flying
saucers or discs were those from aviators who claim they
saw disc-shaped objects flying through the air in various
formations at high altitudes and at a high rate of speed,
The first report was from an aviator who stated that these
so-called flying discs had a somewhat shiny appearance and
would fly in formation and change their position from time
to time. Most reports stated that they appeared in the late
afternoon or about dusk.

Most all reports were to the effect that these objects
had the appearance of an inverted dise or saucer, and some
of them reported that they appeared to be rotatin= in their
flight.

The mystery of the flying saucers or discs may be sol-

ved by the use of a little applied science along with a
few simple experiments.

These flying discs or saucers can be observed by any
motorist traveling along the highways when the sun is
shining on most any afternoon or evening. During the day=-
light most of these so-called flying discs are reflections
from the sun shining upon some bright object in or on the
automobile driven by the observer. For instance, if you
were driving in a north-westerly direction with the sun
shining on the handle of the front or rear door on the left
side of the car, you may notice a shiny object appear in the
ventilation wing of the window on the drivers left, if it is

opened to about a 45° angle.

These shiny objects may have wrious forms and there may

be more than one, depending on the number of reflections.

They may appear to be in the sky when thé driver looks through
the ventilation wing glass. Their position in the sky depends
upon the angle at which the object is reflected in: the ven-
tilation wing and the position of the observer, They may have
various forma but very frequently they are of a saucer shape
or a flat shape when they appear.to be in the sky. ;

The ventilation wing during day-light is not of course
a perfect mirror, therefore, it appears to the driver or ob-
server that he is actually looking through the glass into the
sky. As he moves along, the bright objects appear to be
traveling at a high rate of speed in comparison with the
stationary objects on the ground, or the distant horizon, that
he sees through the window, or in comparison with the faintly
silhouetted objects on the landscape which at times are re-
flected in the window.

The flying saucer appears to be traveling in the same
general direction as the automobile but sometimes a little to
the right which makes it appear that it will eventually cross
the drivers path. The apparent flight direction of the
saucer is due to the angle of the ventilation wing glass in
its relation to the direction in which the car is traveling.
The number and position of the saucers refleéted in the glass
depend upon the number and contour of objects reflected there-
in by the sun. Bright objects on a car approaching from the
rear may cast such reflections on your ventilation wing in
the daytime.

(2)

If the ventilation wing window were a posites wiseor the
objects causing the reflections would appear therein,as well as
all other objects within range, but the ventilation wing being
a sort of a semi-mirror, does not reflect the object but only

the bright spot, which leaves the impression that the observer

ig actually looking through the glass and that the object act-
ually appears to be in the sky, or at times a long distance
away. These results are best obtained in the late afternoon,
or after sun down.

The aviators who reported seeing flying discs or saucers,
undoubtedly were seeing the reflection of bright objects in or
on their own plane. They saw them as reflected in their canopy
or wind shield, but failed to recognize them as reflections.
Otherwise they were reflections from other air craft.

As the aviator traveled along observing the movement of
the dise in comparison with the mountains, clouds or station-
ary objects on the earth, made them appear to be traveling at
a high rate of speed. The sloping angle of the aviators
windeshield and his position in the plane made it appear thet
the discs were in the sky. The position of the discs also
depend upon the position of the observer and the angle at which
they are reflected in the glass.

Some of the reports stated that where there were more
then one flying disc, they appeared to be fastened together
and frequently performed a dipping or rising motion and when
one would dip, they would ail go through the same motion sim-
ultaneously. The simultaneous movement is due to the reflect-

dons all coming from the same object. For instance, if they

(3)

are reflected from some bright object in or on the car or plane,
the up and down motion of the car or plane causes the flying
dises to appear to be going through a dipping and rising motion,
or, if the reflecting object is stationary and the car moving,
the results will be the same.

The statement that the discs appeared to be rotating as
they sailed through the atmosphere is due to the vibration of

the automobile or plane. Vibrations make them appear to be

rotating at a very high rate of speed. Vibration is what gives

them a flat or disc-like shape. also.

If you wish to see some flying discs, make a drive at about
dusk or at night, open your ventilation wing window at about a
45° angle from the drivers seat and watch the reflections of
the stationary electric lights th»t appear on your left, if you
are driving, after you pass them,and see how many discs you can
observe flyinz through the air. If there are not too many lights
to your rear, you may have a perfect formation of beaufiful
flying discs which may be red, green or silver according to
the color of the electric lights which you have passed. They
appear most realistic when traveling about forty-five or fifty
miles per hour. If you do not get satisfactory results from
your first experiments, try again. After you have learned
when and where to look for them, your observations become more
pleasing and interesting.

Even the lizhts of an approaching automobile from your
rear my appear as one flying disc in your ventilation wing.
The reflections of the approaching lights will appear in your
ventilation wing unless the side of your car protrudes cut so

prevent the light beam from shining on the wing.

(4)

These appear best when the approaching car is some distance
away, perhaps a quarter or half a mile. The results at night
may not be as impressive as those in the late afternoon because
at night your ventilation wing window makes a more perfect
mirror and the passing landscape is not as pronounced, therefore,
the reflections therein are more easily detected as reflections.
In the late afternoon, however, you have a feelinzs that you are
actually looking through the glass and the reflected objects
appear more real. The sun shining on a bright ring on your fin-
ger with your hand resting on the steering wheel may cast disc-
like reflections in your wind shield. The form of the reflect-
ion will depend upon the ornamental decorations on your ring.

The rear door handle on my automobile reflects nine beau-
tiful, little, silver, flying dises in the brizht sun-light.
These appear in the lower part of the ventilation wing and when
traveling on a level highway, they appear to be racing along
with me at the road side. These nine discs appear in a forme
ation of two rows of four each, with the ninth one in the lead
at the center of the formation. They appear as whirling pro-
pellers in a vertical position.’ These discs also have stream-
ers which are due to the curveture and decorative pattern on
the handle. While traveling north in the early afternoon under
a bright sun, these nine discs appeared far below to my left,
racing up the valley at a terrific rate.

You may be able to see flying discs in your own home.
If you will turn on a small electric light in the hall-way

and then bok through the window at the other end of the hall,

(5)

you may see as many as three flying discs from one electric
idight bulb, which may have more or less of a bell shape. These
dises many times appear as inverted saucers, and if you will
change your position slowly you will see that they change their
position also. These are best observed in the late afternoon
or between sun down and dusk, when it appears to you that you
are merely looking through the window pane at the discs suse
pended in the distance. As darkness comes on, the window pane
becomes a more perfect mirror and your discs appear as reflect-
ions in a mirror.

To watch the dises, through your ventilation wing, sail
along with you as you drive through the country, becomes very
fascinating, especially if you use a little imagination. It
may absorb your thoughts Completely, therefore, I would admon-

ish automobile drivers watching the flying discs, to be cautious

and not run off the road or into some other car.

Some of the reports on flying saucers, heretofore not ex-
plained in this article, such as those reported seeing bright
flashes in the sky, were no doubt reflected sun-light from
planes. These light beams chanced to cross the line of vision
of the observer... They frequently appear very brilliant and
may more or less blind the observer for an instant. If the
plane is very high it may not be seen by the observer, which
may be due to impaired vision or the great height at which
the plane is flying. We very often get these same blinding
flashes from automobile wind-shields, Many of the reports
around July 4th. were incited by various forms of fire works.

Some reports stemmed from pure imagination or hysteria, while
others were deliberate hoaxes. Any other reports can be ex-
plained if all the surrounding facts are known.

Most all of the reports and descriptions of the flying
saucers coincide so clearly with the findings herein, that
there could be no doubt but that we have the correct solution.

The foregoing statement may not be coached in precise
scientific terms, and may not be scientifically exact, how-
ever, we believe it is so worded that the average layman can
understand it and that it is sufficiently correct to prove
the proposition.

Personally, I do not believe that the so-called flying
saucers or the solution thereof, are of any military value,
unless the Government wished to retain this information for
the psychological effect upon any potential enemy nation,

such as Germany did in regard to their so-called secret

weapons during the war.
ae

| [8 /r

Code 110A : : B
WRL 7 August 1947

MEMORANDUM |
SUBJECT: “Flying Saucers"

TO: Asst Chief of Air Staff-2
Collection Branch, AAF
Washington 25, D. C.

1. The inclosure is an excerpt from @ letter to
Dr. E. Tousey, Micron Waves Section Head, Naval Research Labora-
tory, from Mr. John F. Cole, pertaining to some unidentified objects
which Mr. Cole reports to have seen some time prior to the first
reports of "flying saucers" in the New England area.

2. Dr. Tousey states that Mr. Cole is a well-known astronomer
and a reliable observer as e result of his training.

3. The inclosure is in addition to information contained
in previous letters to your office taken from interviews at the
request of Lt. Col. G. D. Garrett, AAF A-2.

144

if Ate
1 Anel. WILLIAM P. MELLEN
( Excerpt fm ltr to Major, Air Corps
Dr. Tousey 2 AMC Liaison Officer
Naval Research Laboratory

Excerpt from letter to Dr. R. Tousey from
Mr. John F. Cole

South Brooksville, Me,
July 28, 1947.

Having in mind the ridicule which has been heaped.on those innocent
or perhaps gullible individuals who have reported disks, I would be a little
cautious in interpreting. But it is safe to say truthfully, that something
unusual attracted my attention, and I was in a perfectly sober. condition,
barring the mild stimulation, afforded by cool spring water filtering through
North Haven greenstone cracks. It should be easy to determine if the "disks"
were @ new type jet plane, or bomber, or rocket. ‘The fact that it was July
3, about 2:30 P.M. (summer time) or Greenwich Civil time 1830 might suggest
that they were engaged in some naval demonstration from Eastport, Bar Harbor
or Belfast. The group appeared to be at an altitude of about 50° -- I suffer
from a mild cervical arthritis--but my eyes are well corrected for astigma-
tism and hypermetropia, and I doubt if my cerebral cortical Lesions are suffic-
iently advanced to affect my balance. What first made me look up was the un-
usually loud roar and I was surprised not to see a well defined group of planes
quite near. Instead I had to look rather sharply to see the bunch-of very
light colored objects, ina general northerly direction and travelling roughly
in a NW (true) direction. This was reasonably correct, as I was on Cox's
hill, and looked over towards Backwood's Mount, that is the conspicuous flat
tep planated hill at Harborside. The group could hardly have covered more
than 14° angular diameter in the sky, and bunched rather closely with no
regular formation. There might have been 10, I couldn't say and with 90' of
arc spread, would easily be within the limit of visibility for discreet ob-
jects. As a group they were ging so as to cover 30° of arc, estimated of
course, in perhaps 10 or 15 seconds. If one of them, sey, subtended 1/10°,
with a possible wing spread of 100 feet, it would put it at a distance of
over 10 miles, and quite invisible for a light object. Besides, with 30°
arc of travel at a 10 mi. distance would be roughly 5 miles in 15 seconds
or 20 mi. per minute or 1200 mi. per hour! !--rather fast for a bomber—-hi.
A 50 ft. objects at 5 miles dist. would be about 600 mi. per hr.--also fast
going. The only concrete evidence of forn apveared on the left tangent of
the group--two dark shaped forms: © ~) which may have been tail wings.
Doeen't the Douglass bomber have these? And since they were in no regular
formation, but seemed among themselves to be moving irregularly like a swarm
of bees, why shouldn't all of them have shown wings? The loud roar suggests
they may have been much closer, and rather small. The sky beckground was
hazy blue, and the sun behind me. One plane towing a lot of balloons, I
believe, would have been easily recognized. Havy any meteorites been re-
Ported? At that time of day, has there been any abrupt change of radio field
strength? or ionization?

OFFICE OF THE AIR INSPECTOR
25 JULY 1947

MEMORANDUM TO: AC/AS-2, Counter Intelligence Branch

1. Information contained herein and opinions expressed are based
upon conversation with and request by Mr. Butler of your office. All

pertain to certein phenonema connected with recent widespread talk of
“flying saucers".

2. Approximately three weeks ago, on or about 7 July 1947, I
prepared to go to bed around 2230 or 2300 EDT. I was living at 2807
North Glebe Road, Arlington, Virginia, with my wife. Illustration No. 1
shows the general layout of the room we occupied at that time. See
Illustration No. l.

3. I had just turned off the light by my bedside, but sat down
on the side of the bed to listed to the end of a radio program before
reclining. In the meantime, my wife and I were having some conversa-
tion about the selection of certain furniture for a home we had just
purchased, At the time of these events, as I sat facing the windows,
@ light appeared at the right-hand edge of the extreme end window and
moved rapidly along to disappear below the trees or horizon, or to be
extinguished in some fashion at some place in a general southerly
direction, This is illustrated on the following page by a very tenta-
tive sketch. See Illustration No. 2. j

|| gn,
Ar,

4. At the time, since my attention was divided and absorbed among
the subjects mentioned, my reaction was simply that "a light passed by,"
and I gave no further thought to the matter until some moments later,
when the thought came to me that I had never seen such an object before,
and thet although the first explanation would have been that a meteor had
fallen toward earth in that direction, it did not have the appearance of
any meteor or "shooting star" I had ever seen, Thinking of the then-
prevalent talk of flying disks, I reflected that probably some such
thing as I had just seen was the source of a large amount of newspaper
and radio publicity on the subject. The next morning I jestingly
announced in the office that I saw a flying saucer the night before and
thought that it was enroute to Alexandria,where some of our officers
live. I then went on to say that I supposed it was a shooting ster,
but that it did look somewhat peculiar, After we had discussed the
general topic for some time, I dropped the subject, not wishing to add
to the supposed rumors, which I envisioned as a source of serious panic
over the country.

52 A description of the light, or object is almost impossible,
since observation of it was so limited. As shown in Illustration No. 2:
the object appeared to pass in closest proximity to me at the time it
came into view. All of my mental calculations were based upon some
impression or conseption of its distance at the closest point, (AC).

I had no way of judging this, except in the form of very crude depth-
perception. If this by any chance were correct, ard instead of a dis-
tant meteor some object had passed near-by, I would assume for purposes
of description that the distance AC on the sketch was some three quarters
of a mile, One factor which I could judge quite reliably was the angular
elevation. This must have been approximately 3 or 4 degrees; at any
rate, the light was intermittently behind the tallest trees forward of
my position as it passed, and these trees are of a normal height, perhaps
sixty or eighty feet at a distencef several blocks. Based upon a mild
assumption as to distance, and a reasonable assumption as to angular
elevation, the object would be at a low altitude, considerably below

500 feet, and of a size approximating a small airplane, say 30 feet
across. The shape may have been round, oval, discal, or irregular; at
the speed with which it travelled, I could only perceive it as a “blob.”
I do not consider the distance mentioned to be less than 3/4 mile,
because had it been, I feel sure that, late in the evening and with all
my windows open, I would have heard some sound, which I definitely did
not in this case. It might be well to point out here the relative
similarity in size, altitude and airspeed of g firefly at a distance of
SO feet, an airplane at about 3/4 mile, and a meteor at several hundred
miles. Most of us are familiar with this illusion.

6. Although I could not accurately judge the time, I seem to
recall the object or light was visible for a couple of seconds.
Taking this figure literally and applying it to the sketch, No. 2,
one could roughly compute the speed of the object at 1350 mph; however,
I did not sense that it was moving with such great speed as this. It
rather appeared to move with the speed of a jet-powered airplane, It
did not deviate from a straight course while I observed it, and did not
perceptibly lose altitude.

7 In color, the subject had the appearance of a reflected white
light, a cool, bright white light with no red in it, like the moon on a
clear night. There was no train visible to me, in the form of fire,
smoke, or sparks. The weather at the assumed time and date was checked
through records of the Bolling Field weather office, and consisted of
scattered to broken clouds with visibilities of 10 - 12 miles. ‘The cloud
condition is further indication that the object was not necessarily a
meteor, since it might have been impossible to see a meteor, I do not
personally remember the weather condition, except that I am sure it was

8. At the time of this occurrence, I was not inclined to think of
it seriously enough to wake my wife and describe it to her, nor by any
reasoning to make official report. As time passed, I thought considerably

about the fleeting glimpse I had of whatever I saw, and am still somewhat
confused, but feel that it was some natural phenomenon which occurs but
rarely. I have flown approximately 2500 hours during the past: seven

years and being generally familiar with aspects of aviation can emphati-
cally state that (a)“it was no weather balloon, (b) it was not the flash of
@ beacon on the cloud-base, (c) it could hardly have been an airplane on
fire, since it would have at least crashed in this general area, (d) it

was not entirely a result of imagination, and (e) it was not spending
much time in one place.

KO

a _

0. COBB
Lt Colonel, Air Corps

AEMY LIAISON OFFICE
NAVY DEPARTMENT
NAVAL RESEARCH LABORATORY
WASHINGTON 20, D.C.

28 July 1947
SUBJECT: Flying Saucers

Asst Chief of Air Staff-2
Collection Branch, AAF
Washington 25, D. C.

’

Supplemental to that contained in a letter to your office,
dated 16 July 1947, re interview with Mr. C. H. Zohn who purports
to have seen an unidentified flying object, the following additional
information was obtained on 21 July from C. C. Rockwood, who was mentioned
in that letter as having also seen the object.

C. C. Rockwood reports the object to have been either a silvery
sphere or disc, which he would have taken to be a meteorological balloon
except for the fact that it was travelling at a much higher velocity

than the automobile and approximately in the same direction. The auto-
mobile was moving about 60 mph. There was little, if any, surface wind.

When first seen at an elevation of about 45° it appeared about of
the same size as the sun. He could hear nothing above the noise of the
car. FP» saw no smoke or contrails.

Its motion was apparently all horizontal. Its aspect did not change
so faf*as could be observed during the time of observation. He thought
it disappeared by simply becoming too small to see.

Ab bx f Pallan.

WILLIAM P. MELLEW
Major, Air Corps
AMC Liaison Officer

This is en unparaphrased code (cypher) ‘Yessage phrased
if essential to retransmit it in another system or to comunicate ite con-
tents to persons outeide British or U.S. Governrent Services. One=tim

bi] pee pad ressages are excepted from this rule, ED

JOINT COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE 9421 vot [1

IN MESSAGE T.0,0: O80800 Aug. 1947
REC'D: 1200 EDT 9th Aug.

A.M, LONDON
FAFDEL

AIX 6328 hug. Sth 1947

Your AIX 14 duly 29th.

During normal night flying practice at 2230 hours on 16th
January, 1947, one of our Mosquitos was vectored @ to an unidentified
aircraft at 22,000 feet. A long chase ensued commencing over the North
Sea about 50 miles fror the Dutch coast end ending at 2300 hours over
Norfolk. Two brief AI contrcts were mde but faded quickly. The un-
identified airerafl appeared to take efficient controlled evasive action.
2. No explanation of this incident has been forthcoming nor
has it been repeated,

ia A MM.
f.M.

C,.I.0, (Action)3-

fec

© ens

30 July 1947

For purposes of analysis by AFBIR-CO, eighteen reported sightings
of “Flying Discs" were selected for breakdown into detailed particulars. Each
report was assigned a number and each number appears in the left-hand column
of the data on the following pages.

Qne report, Number 7, has not yet been received and therefore no
information is included other than Date, Name of Observer, and Location. The
Fourth Air Force is attempting to secure a statement from this observer.

Four reports, Numbers 2, 4, 17, and 18, have not been analyzed.

The subject headings on which the breakdown has been made are:

Date

Hour (Local standard Time)
Location

Ohserver's Name

Ooserver's Occupation
Observed from Ground or Air
Number of Objects Sighted
Altitude

Direction of Flight

Speed

Distance Covered

Length of Time in sight
Deviation from Straight Flight
Color

Size

Shape

Sound

Trail

Weather

Manner of Disappearance
Remarks

Report
Number

»

7
8
9
10
11
lz
13
l,

&

e

Observer's Name

D. A. Houser

F. Je Smith

L. D. Jamison
Byron Savage

E. L. DeRose
Kenneth Arnold
Wilson H. Kayko
John H. Cantrell
Redman
Theodore Dewey
C. H. Zohn

J. R. Kauke

C. C. hockwood
Nancy Rockwood
Richard Rankin
z&. J. Smith
Ralph Stevens
A. B. Browning
Jase He Burniston
Not Stated

" "

Not. Stat ed
" "

Alvin E. Moorman
Iric Kearsey

Mr. Mehrman
Grahm

and several other officers
a

%

Observed

Occupation From
Railroad Eaployee Ground
” "

" " "”
Businessman-Pilot Ground
*ijot stated Ground
Business-man Pilot Air
Captain, AAF Ground
" " '

" "

lst Lieut., AAF
Bauployee, NhL
” "

" "

Wife of C.C. Rockwood

Civilian Pilot

United Air Lines Pilot
-- " " Co-Pilot

Major, AAF

Captain, AAF

CaP Instructor

CAP Student

CAF Pilot

CAP Passenger

lst Lieut., ACCNG

Constable, Newfoundland
Constabulary

THA Representative

FAA "

Major, AAF

*From letter received, observer
is obviously well educated.

Deviation from
Straight flight

Climbed, dove, hovered overhead, re-
sumed original course

None reported
Zig zag course "much like a water-
bug"

None reported
None reported

None reported
None reported

Descended edgewise, stopped at 4,000!
and assumed horizontal position. FPro-
ceeded in horizontal flight for 15
seconds, stopped again, then disapp-
eared

None reported

None reported

None reported
None reported

Followed contours of mountains five
miles away from observers

Color

silver

Silver, very
bright

Brilliance
slightly great-
er than a star
some solar spec-
ular reflection

Almost dusk;
could not dis-
tinguish

Very bright and
silvery colored
teflection from
sun

Not stated

Not stated

Of light-reflec-
ting nature
Phosphorous
color

Silvery

Resembled a
grayish balloon

Size

Apparently small

Small

hot stated

Not stated

Impossible to
determine

30-50' in diameter

Comparable to a
C-54 at 10,000!
Not stated

Not stated
Apparent depth of
a P=51

Not stated

Same span as a
C=54 at 10,000!
Approx. 10' in
diameter

Shape

No definite shape could be
determined

Irregular; round, Dis not
appear particularly disc-
shaped

None stated; seemed like
a bright light

No details other than that
shape was uniform with no
protuberances

None definite, but seemed
flat on base with the top
slightly rough in contour
Round, disc-shaped

No shape could be disting-
uished

Not stated, but report re-
fers to "saucer" several
times

Same as Report No. 11

Flat object, of light-re-

flecting nature which appear-

ed to be without vertical
fin or any visible wings
Egg-shaped, or like barrel
head

Circular in shape, like
wagon wheel

Resembled balloon

None

Possible vapor
trails

None

None

None

None

None
None

None

Bluish black
trail approx.
15 mi. long
None

Weather

CAVU

Not stated

Clear moonlight
CAVU

CAVU

CAVU
Sunny

CAVU

CAVU
Not stated

CAVU

Clear with scat-
tered cumulus
at 8 to 10,000!
Not stated

This image contains all the
information on the document.

Manner of
Disappearance

Climbed very fast and out of sight

Obscured by a cloud bank
Lost in brilliancy of the moon

Cannot explain, except that reflec-
tion angle may have changed abruptly

Don't know whether they put on a tre-
menduous burst of speed, or disinteg-
rated. However, they did disappear into

sunset
Unexplained

Disappeared at an angle of about 30°
above the earth's surface

Unexplained
Unexplained
Pilot (at 30OMPH) attempted to keep
object in sight, but unable to do so
Unexplained
Unexplained

Not. stated

ee

Remarks

No definite shape could be determi
and even with the aid of 4 to 6 pe
er binoculars object could not be
brought into focus ,

From letter this observer wrote, i
is obvious he is a well-educated
person. Seeks no publicity.

Observers (2 rated, 2 air intell.)
phoned Field Ops to ascertain no

scheduled experimental a/c were in
vicinity. Sky chart attached to re
Observer is Admin.Asst. in the hoc
et Sonde Sect. of NAL. Two other

"scientists", and wife of one, wee
in party and made same observation

Observers were Pitot, Co-Pilot, of
scheduled UAL DC=3. Stewardess als)
saw objects. Suggest reading of ve
detailed statements.

When first sighting object near ho
izon, observer looked at chart in
his lap to check position. iwhen he
looked out window again, object wa
off his left wing at ll o'clock
Rolled from side to side 3 times i
its path across the sky. Sun refle
ed from top side, but never from u
erside, even when turning

None

None

Observer contacted bases in area w
reported no a/e in air at time
First 4 discs flyirg line-a-trail
Seemed to cut clouds open es it
passed thru. Trail was like bean
seen after a high-powered landing
l4cht is switched off.

Object was observed paralleling th
course of a C-i,7 then landing.

HEADQUARTEKS TEEN TH FOXCE
Colorado Sprin; Colorado

SUBJECT: Supersonic Platters

SUMMARY CF INFORMATION:

Tne following information was related to Counter Intelligence Corps
Personnel at Headquarters Fifteentn Air Force, Colorado sSprin,s, Colorado on
27 June 1947 oy Mr D. A. haus 24 North Chesnut Street, Colorado Springs
Colorado, Mr. F. J. Smitz, 24 rairview, Manitou Springs, Colorado and Mr. L.
D. Jamison, 24l5 Wiest Xiowa, Colorado Sprin_s, Colorado. All three of the

men are empolyees of the Pixes Peak kailvry, Manitou Springs, Colorado.

"On or about 19 kay 1947 during their lunch period (121.-1315) a mem-
ber of a train crew called attention to a silver objec! in tiie sky a; proaching
from ti.e North East. It appeared to Le travelli:, at a great speed. All
three men stated that the altitude of the object was very difficult to deter-
mine because of its apparent smallness. They further sta'ed that because of
this it was difficult to view the object as being large and having high
altitude or small and being at a relatively low altitude. They did say though
that it appeared to be higher than the top of Manitou Mountain which is over
1000 feet higher than tne shops which are situated at its base. No definace
s..ape of the object could be determined and even witn tie aid of bincvculars it
still could not be brought into focus. The vinoculars used were of about 4 to
6 power. The men stated that they were cer ain that the cbject did not have
any of tne physical characteristics of modern conventional aircraft.

The day was discribed as being clear aid sunny witn not a cloud in the
sky andano ground wind.

On reaching tne area just North of Kanitou lioutain the object remained
in tne immediate area for several minutes during which time it was seen to
execute manuvers such as climbi:g, divin; and reversal of direction of flifht.
This happened every few seconds. The distance and location between views
prompted two of the men to think that there,were more of ‘he unidentified
objects in the sky. At times the object seemed to hoveer in tne air and then
start on another path of flijht. When last seen tie silver object was climp-
in, very fast towards the West almost directly into the wind.

Previous distribution:
Evalutation
None
source of int'ormution
DISTHKIBUTION:
E (@)

y 4

Hq SAC 3 copies

*

HQOCAMA FORM NO. 8-506 YY -
31 MAY 1948 *

OKLAHOMA CITY AIR MATERIEL AREA
TINKER FIELD

OKLAHOMA CITY. OKLAHOMA

IN REPLY REFER TO: OCAPN/KDS:cp

#3724-1 2, July 1947

SUBJSCT: BYRON 2. SAVAGE, Field Engineer, Radio Corporation of
America, Dallas, Texas. (Residence: 416 N. W. 29th Street,
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. )

RE: Flying Disc.

On 23 July 1947, BYRON E. SAVAGS was interviewed at his residence,
416 N. W. 29th Street, Oklahoma City, Cklahoma, relating to his alleged
viewing of a flying disc over the vicinity of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Subject, whose age is 38, advised he is married and aas one child,
and is presently the holder of a Private Filot's License, No. 39101,
(Single cngine, Land). Subject averred he has extensively studied electron-
ics, sound engineering and aeronautics, and his present occupation, which is
Field Engineer for Radio Corporation of America, ofrices of which are
located in Lallas, Texas, is that of installing theater sound equipment.
SAVAGE stated that between the days 17 May to 21 May 1947, just after dusk,
he observed an object which he believed to be 4 small aircraft in the south.
SAVAGE advised that the sun had just gone down and the moon had not arisen
on the horizon. SAVAGS related that he and his wife had just departed
their residence and had started to enter their car in the driveway at
416 N. W. 29th Street, Oklahoma City. He judged the time to be between
8:30 pem. and 9:00 p.m., and the lights from the city of Oklahoma City
appeared to be shining on this object when he first saw it. He judged the
object to be about 160° in the south when he first saw it, and as it moved
toward him he remarked to his wife that "a big white plane was coming over."

SAVAGE stated that when this object was at a 45° angle from him, he
realized it was not a conventional type aircraft, and it appeared elliptical
at first and as it moved closer it appeared perfectly round and was flat.
SAVAGE advised the object, which appeared to him as a disc, had no appearance
of being spherical and had a ratio of diameter to the thickness of approxi-
mately 10 to 1, appearing thicker in the center, but this could not be
positively ascertained. SAVAGE judged the object to be at an altitude of
between 10,000 and 18,000 feet, and it left no trailing effects. SAVAGE
related that it appeared to be in bulk as big as the bulk of six B-29s at
an altitude of approximately the same height. SAVAGs advised that the object
was in his vision approximately 15 to 20 seconds and travelled at a speed
which he judged to be approximately three times that of jet-propelled aircraft.

Memo to the Security Officer, OCAMA, Tinker Field, dtd 7/24/47, File
3724-1.

SAVAGE stated that there were no protrusions on this object and as it
went by he listened for a sound of noise, and at one time thought he dis-
tinguished a swishing sound like the rushing of air. This swishing sound
occurred a few seconds after this object had passed him. SAVAGE averred
this sound was not very loud and did not last very long, and it is very
possible that the sound could have been his imagination or expectation, as
he was not sure of the sound. SAVAGE related that he called his wife to
see this object but it had disappeared before she could focus her eyes on
it. Subject stated™that the object appeared to diminish in size and
speed as it moved away, and it was moving in a direction of 350° to the

north. Subject further stated that the object appeared to be frosty white
in color at all times.

SAVAGE advised that he has held a pilot's certificate since 1934 and
has been flying since 1929. He advised that he would be glad to answer any
further inquiries and will cooperate in every way possible. SAVAGE stated
he was sure this object was not a meteor and in his opinion it must be
radically built and powered, probably atomic.

c

ee ae 151 Meridian Street
Greenfield, Massachusetts

duly 10, 1947

Commanding Officer
Westover Field
Chicopee, Massachusetts

Dear Sirs

After having read several accounts of eye-witnesses who claim they
had seen the so-called “flying discos", it brought to mind a strange exper-~
dence I had some two weeks ago. The reason I write to you is that radio and
newspaper reporte state that the air forces have been alerted to investigate
these mysterious objects. Assuming that you are interested, I am making the
following report in the belief that it might possibly be of help to yous. I
do not desire to have any kind of publicity whatsoever in this connection.

About 11:50 AM, Sunday, June 22nd, I was working outdoors on a step~
ladder, looking up, and suddenly there appeared across my line of vision a
speeding, brilliant, emall, round-shaped, silvery-white object at an altitude
I would judge to be about 1,000 ft. or more. It was moving very fast in a
straight, northwesterly direction -- I would say as fast or possibly faster
than a speeding plane. It was so unusual and strange a sight that it arrest-
ed my attention for about 8 or 10 seconds until it was obscured by a cloud-
bank.

Waturally my curiosity was considerably aroused and I tried to think
what this object might have been. I doubted very much that it could have been
a weather baloon because it was not at all like any weather baloons I had seen
before. The object I saw, although small, reflected the sunlight very strong-
ly as though it were of polished alwtinum or silver, and I can assure you was
very real. It appeared to have an irregular round shape and while it could
have been disc-shaped, it did not particularly impress me as suche

I have attempted to give you this information as accurately and
clearly as I kmow how, free from any imagination or exaggeration. Further-
more, my experience took place before I had any inkling that "flying discs"
were reported seen.

This information is being passed on to you for whatever it may be
worth, purely and simply in the interests of national security, and once.
more request that you do not publicize my name.

Sinceroly yours,
A CERTIFIED TRUE COPY:
/a/ Bdward L. DeRose

eee a a Bdward Le DeRose
ARCHIE F. ROY
Captain, Air Corps

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Pield, California

4AFDA 17 July 1947
333.5 ID

SUBJECT: Investigation of “Flying Discs"

TO: Commanding General, Army Air Forces, Washington 25, De Ceo
ATTENTION: AC of AS=2

1. Attached statements and MOICs forwarded to your office per
request THX from Headquarters Air Defense Command, Mitchel Pield, N. Y.,
dated 10 July 1947.

2e This headquarters is unable to locate Richard Rankin, however,
as soon as he is located, statement and MOIC will be forwarded direct to
your office.

Se Information copies furnished Headquarters Air Defense Command.

DONALD L. SPRINGER
4 Inels: Lt. Colonel, GSC
1. MOTC 16 Jul/Brown (dup AC of S, A-2
2. MOIC 16 Jul/8rown
3. MOIC 16 Jul/3rown
4. M0IC 16 Jul/Brown

Info ec to ADC

Incident
LAY 1208 I
16 July 19h7

MEMORANDUM POR THE OFTICER IN CHARGE:

le vn 12 July 1947, a call was made at the newspaper office of
the "Idaho Daily Statesman", Soise, Idato. The aviation editor of the
paper, Ur. David N. Johnson, was interviewed in regard to how wel] he
knew Mr, Kemeth Arnold of “oise, Idaho, and as to the credibility of
any statemzat made by Mr. Arnold. The purpose of this interview was an
attempt to verify statements made by Mr. ‘enneth Arnold on 26 June 1917,
to various national news services to the effect that he, ic. Amold,
had seen 9 objects flying in the air above the Jascade ‘ountain Range
of ‘ashington. These objects were subsequently referred to as flying
saucers or flying disks and will here-in-after be referred to as such
in this report. Mr. Johnson stated that he had knom Mr. Arnold for
quite a period of time, having had relations with Mr. Arnold on various
eccasions, due to the fact that both he, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. Arnold
were private fliers and frequently got together to talk shop. Mr. Johnson
stated that as far as he was concerned anything Mr. Arnold said cculd be
taken very seriously and that he, Mr. Johnson, actually believed that ir.
Arnold had seen the aforementioned flying disks. Ur. Johnson stated that
after “Mr. Arnold reported having seen the flying disks, that the editor
of the paper had assigned him, Wr. Johnson, the assignment of taking the
airplane belonging to the newspaper and exhausting all efforts to prove
or disprove the probability of flying disks having been seen in the
northwest area. The results of this assignment to Mr. Johnson and what
he subsequently saw is put forth in a sworn statement signed by Wr. Johnson
attached to this report as ixhibit 5.

AGENT'S NOTES: Wr. Johnson is a man of approximately 33 to 35 years of
age. From all appearances he is a very reserved type of person. Mr.
Johnson has logged 2800 hours of flying time in various types of airplanes
up to and including multi-engine aircraft. During part of the war years,
“Mr. Johnson was the first pilot of a B-29 type aircraft being assigned to
the Twentieth USAAF and stationed on Tinian Island, in the Pacific. It

is the personal opinion of the interviewer that ‘“r. Johnson actually saw
what he states that he saw in the attached report. It is also the opinion
of the interviewer that Yr. Johnson would have much more to lose than gain
and would have to be very strongly convinced that he actually saw something
before he would report such an incident and open himself for the ridicule
that would accompany such a report,

1 Inels Exhibit "8"

PRANK M, GROWN, S/A, CIC Sth AF

between

During this search, which lested ¢

hours, JI flew under and

. ’
,£ne Vamas

area known as

villare of Fairfie

distance east

of
these clouds.
At

the time

rad 4

leet &

neter induced

joise and the villare

arouna

Prairic

14,0900

OVE

oO &

eridian, west o

formin

ine

vetween Bois

point
feet mean sea

eerth in this area,

y barometri

yproximately

cumulus

level, which would be a

a few miles.

one-half

wwe

clouds over

eridien, I was

mean

not considering errors

since takeoff, or

werd Gowen

ere suddenly

I could not see

optical view finder with which car 2, On > I man, was equipp
Taking the camera away and once again centerinz my gaze on the

I observed it to roll so thet its edge was presented

flashed once in the sunlirht.

then performed a maneuver which looked e:

& barrel roll, which instesed of being complete w rok

rolled out of

o

previously

relatively, as

far away it was. I

I can only say it was not an

tance from me, its sneed was creat, taking into consideration t!

speed is reduced to th iew if an obj is a very rreat distance away.
I forgot to look at my clock to determine the exa

object. The CAA's loc of radio contacts shows my first cont > have been

made af12:17 hours. 3ut a few seconds elapsed between the time first saw

the object, and the time I called the CAA's station.

I subsequently related over the radio s description of w saw, and
communicator Albertson msy remember it. he control tower may @ record-
ing of the conversation. I have not checked to determine thete

The purpose of my relating over the air what I saw was to enable rapid
transmission of the revort to the newspaper, for at that time I was on

assignment and my enercies thenceforth were devoted to (1) trans

information and (2) conducting a further search, which I did after landing

biel

for fuel and to make some telephone cells.

inference

the ground) while I ws

time to
have been 14:00 hours.

manner,

1 observed.

above is

now in order.

Il have anproximsetely

ent ranrin

from primary trainers

increase my

powers of observation except aim

241 Battery Street, San Francisco, showed no trace of any object. Stohr

says thet if it was more than a mile distant from ne at the size I described,
the object would not have registered sufficiently on the filn to be shown.
He said it probably was too far away to be apparent ovdlir ough great en=
largement of the negative, and enlargement in thet case is Limited because
of the size of the film and the fact I did not have any telescopic equipment
on the lens. The exposure was f.16, stop set at infinity, at a speed of 16
frames per second,

I have’worried over this matter a great deal since seeing it. I “took
myself aside" and said, "come now, Johnson, don't be stupide® But I cannot”
bring myself to the point of thinking I did da see anything. The impression
of the moment was too vivid, too realistic, and 1 knew in the air when I saw
that partial slow roll or barrel roll, that I was not a victim of illusion.

I trust ‘this matter will be of help to those inves’ caine the flying
disc phenomena which have been reported.

A chart is attached depicting the movements of the object as I saw it.

This statement is made voluntarily and freely, in response to the

request of Mr. Browm and Captein Davidgon, who called on me this mornifig.
/sf vavid Ne Johnson

Subscribed and sworn to before me, a*notary vublic, this 12th
may of July , 1947.

/s/ Geo. L. Flaherty

Notery oublic for Ada
county idaho. ly

commission expires dean 2, 1949.

_—-_«
COPY. SOME LIFE DATA ON KENNETH ARNOLD

I was born March @, 1915 in Subeka, Minnesota. My father's name was
Edward Erb Arnold; my mother's andiaks name was Bertha E. Barden. I was 4
resident of Minnesota until I was six yeers old when my family moved to
Scobey, Montana, where they homesteaded. My grandfather, Roland © Arnold
also homesteaded in Scobey, Vontana, and became quite prominent in political
circles along with S3urton K. Wheeler, the famous Montena senator.

I went to grade school and high school at Minot, North Vakota. I
entered scouting at twelve years of age and achieved the rank of Eagle scout
before I was fourteen. My former scout executive was i. H. Prescott, now a
regional commissioner for the “oy Scouts in senses City, Kansas.

As a boy, I was interested in athletics and was selected es an all-
state end in 1932 and 1933 in the state of llorth Dakota. I entered the
U. S. Olympic trials in fency diving in 1932; I was a Red Cross Life Seving
Exeminer during the years of 1932, '33 and '34. I taught swimming and diving
at scout camps and the municipal pool in -‘inot, lorth Yakote. I went to the
University of Minnesote, where I swam and did fancy diving under Neils Thorpe,
and also played football under Bernie ‘ierman, but upon entering college I
was uneble to continue my football career because of an injured kmee. ly
hich school football coech was Glenn L. Jarrett, who is now the head football
coach of the University of North Yakota. I had little or no finances, and
my ambition in furthering my education in college was through my athletics.
As a boy in Minot, lhorth Yekota, I did a good deel of dos sled racing, placed
first with my g in 1930 in the Lions Club Dog Derby.

In 193 went to work for Red Comet, Ince of Lit
manufacturer of automatic fire fighting apparetus.

district maneger for them ove t of the western

established my own fire control supply known as the Great Western Fire
Control Supply. I have been working as an independent fire control

ry

engineer since, and I handle, distribute, sell and install all types of

automatic and manual fire fighting equipment in the rural areas over

five western, states.’
My flying experience started as a boy in Minot, liorth Dakota, where
i took my first flying lesson from Earl T. Vance, who was originelly from
Great Fells, Montena. lue to the hich cost at“that time, I was unable to
continue my flying and did not fly of any creat consequence until 1943.
. 1 was given my pilot certificate by Ed Leach, a senior CAA inspector of
Portland, Oregon, and for the lest three years have owmed my ow airplane
covering my entire territory with same and flying from forty to one hundred
hours per month since. Lue to the fact that I use an airplane entirely in
my work, in January of this year I purchased a new Callair airplane, which
is an airplane designed for high altitude take-offs and short rough field use.
In the type of flying I do, it tekes a great deal of practice and
judgment to be able to lend in most any cow pasture and cet out without
injuri-3 your airplane; ‘the runways are very limited and the altitude is
very high in some of the fields and places I have to go in my work. To
date, I heave landed in 823 cow pastures in mountain méadows, and in over

a thousand hours a flat tire has been my createst mishap.

The following story of what I observed over the Cascade mountains,
as impossible as it may seem, is positively true. I never asked nor wanted
any notoriety for just accidently being in the ri¢cht spot at the right time
to observe what I did. I reported somethine thet 1] know any pilot would
have reported. I don't think thet in ony wey my observation was due to any
sensivity of eye sicht or judgment than what is considered normal for any vilot.

On June 24th, Tuesday, 1947, I had finished my work for the Central Air
Service at Chehalis, Washington, and at about two o'clock I took off from
Chehalis, Washington, airport with the intention of -oine to Yakima, Wash.
y trip was delayed for an hour to search for e large marine transport that
Supposedly went down near or around the southwest side of Ift. Rainier in the
state of Washington and to date has never been found.

I flew directly toward Mt. Rainior after reaching an altitude of about
9,500 feet, which is the approximate elevation of the hich plateau from which
Mt. Rainer rises. I had made one sweep of this high plateau to the westward,
searching all of the various ridges for this marine Ship and flew to the west

down and near the ridge side of the canyon where Ashford, Washington, is located.

Unable to see anything thet looked like the lost ship, I made a S6O degree

turn to the right end above the little city of Mineral, startins again toward
Mte Rainier. I climbed back up to an altitude of approximately 9,200 feet.
The air was so smooth that day that it was a real pleasure flying and,
as most pilots do when the air is smooth and they are flying at a higher
altitude, I trimmed out my airplane in the direction of Yakima, Washington,
which was almost directly east of my position end simply sat in my plane ob-

serving the sky and the terrain.

There was a DC-4 to the left and to the rear of me approximately
fifteen miles distance, and I should judge, at 14,000 foot elevation,

The sky and air was as clear as crystal. I hadn't flown more than

two or three minutes on my course when a brisht flash reflected on my

airplane. It startled me as I thought I was too close to some other air-
craft. I looked every place in the sky and couldn't find where the reflec-
tion had come from until I looked to the left and the north o ainier

.

where I observed a chain of nine veculiar looking aircraft flyine from north

to south at approximately 9,500 foot elevation and soins
definite direction of about 170 derrees.
They were approachine it. ainier very ranidly, and I merely assumed
were jet planes. Anyhow, I discovered that this was where the reflece

tion had come from, ss two or three of them every few seconds would dio or

change their course slichtly, just enoush for he { strike them at an

ite that reflected brichtly on my plane.

These objects beinrs quite far away, I was unable f 1 few seconds to
make out their shape or their formation.
Rainier, and I observed

thou-ht it was very

assumed they wers some type
speed, as I had two defini

clear that it was very eas:

shape

formation vas

with creat

and as,the first one was ssinz the south crest
object was entering e hern f the rid
As I was flying in the
it to be approximately
these Cc like objects
could quite accurately determine their
were seversl
higher peaks on the other sid * thei athwaye
As the st i shis formation naessed the
covered crest of dar I looked at my sweep second hand ar
that they had travelled the f 1 in one mir >» and forty-two s
Even at the time this timin:s
would land there would be some exvlanation o!
A number of news men and experts sucrested
seeing reflections or even :« iragee ‘This I know to

as I observed these objects not only throuch the
turned my airplane sidewnyvs where I could open my window
with a completely unobstructed view. Wit) t sun

Bven“thouch two minutes er snor imé one on the
ground, in the air in two mi 5 me il can observe a rreat
thines and anything within his si; * vision probably as many as
sixty times.

I continued my search ! e marine plane for another fifteen
twenty minutes ond wnile searching for this marine plene, what I had ji
observed kept roinz throuch my mind. I became more disturbed, so after

taking a last look at Tieton Reservoir 1 headed for Yakima.

I might add that my complete observation of these objects, which I

could wen follow by their flashes as they passed iit. Adams, was around two

e ®@ BS ee

HEADQUARTERS TACTICAL AIR COMMAND

LANGLEY FIELD. VIRGINIA

im REPLY REFER TO:

le The following report is unusual occu

[nU, Vero 341, 129
Le i 33 Va NT st shahag Vee 24% Me,

1S T LT. THEODORE DEWEY, O 2094 172, 1 ‘Hq
m 7

T. REDMAN, Randolph lield xa!

5 ‘

aghas ae approxinately 2120 Ce sime, a lisht, with a brilliance
slightly greater than a star, apponre m tho Yost t was first

] 1oted
above the “horizon of a clear moon-light nizht raveling in an oaster]

, -4y

direction at a hig) te of speea hero was audible sounc and it

a LU WAS

impossible to det it appeared to be at
great height. It so with frequen bursts of
—— much like a water bug as it sp Ss and stops across the surface
It contimed until it was di y ovorhead and changed course

Aftor traveling in the above mnnor for approxinately

surned southwest and was lost in the brilliancy of the

vas no longer possible to observe it

Ve

~ <

yperations referenco this
phenomem and inquiry inad y experinental aircraft were schodulo

tees VC LuUs v

a flight in the vicinity € ply was negative.

4

ource of light, which acted contrary to any comnon aerodynanical laws

This report is submitted upon request, in view of the many recent reports
reference unusual aerial objects observed throughout the

e No piausibdle explanation is offered for the unusual action of

o
Ve Ve

Be | the above noted observers are rated pilots and the other two

are air j gence officers. All observers were cold sober. at

6. Attached herewith a sketch showing approximate course of

oe pr Corps
ADORESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO: COMMANDING GENERAL. TACTICAL AIR COMMAND

- ADDRESS REPLY TO & oe ,
« DIRECTOR, NAVAL RESEARCH LABORAT( ARMY LIAISON OFFICE *
. WASHINGTON 20, D.C, NAVY DEPARTMENT

° ANO REFER TO: NAVAL RESEARCH LABORATORY
Code 110 WASHINGTON 20, D.C.

18 July 1947

SUBJECT: Interview of Person Reporting Unidentified Aerial Object

Asst Chief of Air Staff-2
Collection Branch, AAF
Washington 25, D. C.

1. At the request of Lt. Col. G. D. Garrett, AAF A-2, the
undersigned has interviewed this date Mr. C. H. Zohn, Administrative
Assistant in the Rocket Sonde Section, NRL, who had previously
released information to the press regarding an aerial object which
he stated he saw at White Sands, New Mexico, 29 June.

2. Substance of the interview is as follows:

At between 1:00 and 1:30 p. m. Sunday, 29 June 1947,
Mr. Zohn, in the company of the following: Mr. J. R. Kauke, NRL Rocket
Sonde Section telemetering supervisor; Mr. C. C. Rockwood, NRL Rocket
Sonde high altitude spectrograph scientist; and Mrs. Nancy Rockwood,
wife of the latter, was proceeding along Highway 17 in @ North-Easterly
direction from Las Cruces, New Mexico to White Sands V-2 firing grounds
in an automobile driven by Mr. Kauke. At some time between those given
and about one-third of the distance from Las Cruces Mr. Kauke, who was
driving the car, noticed the subject device and called attention to the
other occapants. Mr. Zohn opened the window nearest him and observed
the object moving at an unknown rapid velocity at an unknown altitude,
which he estimated at about 10,000 feet, and which Mr. Kauke, who also
observed it through an open window, estimated at between 8,000 and
10,000 feet, although the former puts little credence in the estimates.

When first sighted the object was to the right and forward
of the automobile at an unstated elevation and was apparently moving
horizontally in a Northerly direction such as to cross the highway from
right to left. The object was observed by all persons in the automobile.
Mr. Zohn stated that he could not observe any details of the object
other than that its shape was uniform, with no protuberances such as
the wings of an airplane. It was too distant to enable stereosconic
visualization. There was apparently some solar specular reflection
which seemed to change in intensity as the object receded until it
was lost from sight after an estimated 30 seconds from the time first
noticed. He could not explain how it disappeared except perhaps that
the reflection angle may have changed abruptly. There were apparently
no clouds or visibility obstructions at the time. The sun was to the
rear of the automobile. Mr. Kauke thought that at one time he saw
vapor trails.

Ltr, ALO, NRL, 18 July 47 to Asst Chief Air Staff-2, Collection Br., AAF,
subj: "Interview of Person Reporting Unidentified Aerial Object"

5. Thies interview was made in the presence of Dr. H. E. Newell,
Acting Rocket Sonde Section Head, who said that Mr. Zohn had recently
been in the Navy and is familiar with the appearance of the majority of
aircraft types and with meteorological balloons. Mr. Zohn also stated
that none of the occupants of the car were intoxicated.

WILLIAM P, MELLEN
Major, Air Corps
AMC Liaison Officer

nterviews with Capt. £. SKiITH and Ralvnh Stovens, Unite

a
»
- “~ Mae

~ ~ ?
, who rep rvsd see

Ceptain E. Jd. SMI y intorviewed at 1500, 9 July 1947, concerning
the “flying disks", an: vated substantially as follows:

imately
biect

ame. At ay
2015, the co-pilot, Ralph STEVENS, called ny attention t> the firs bh
seen. We were then in the vicinity of Emmet, Ideho, our altitude was app=
roximately 6500, and we were climbing ir proposed cruising altitude of
8000 from thers to Pseadleton, Oregon.
was 500 degrees Magnetic North, and the ob?
imately aeorees, cr ton derrees to su

ob

"Te left Boise, Idaho, at 2004 cif standar Time At approx
to

c

ane heading of the plan that time

jects anp sa to U elt of the main,
smeller than the
seme plane.
Tha¢ y Were w=,
iscnpeared,.
"Shortly after the first group diseppeared, probably one cr two ainutes
later, the second group eppeared about 310 de: ‘ the right of the
a1

plane. Their altitude was the s-ms as tho firs? zhree of the objects

eppeared to be on the same plane, and one obfect appeared slightly higher
and to the right of the others. The second group steved within our sight
twelve to fifteen minutes, then disappeared. We Lad levelled of? by the

time the second group disappeesred,

"The objects were flet on the cose, the top slightly rough in contour.
The dimensions appeared the same as a DC-2 approximately five miles from
uge In o#her words, it could have been ninety miles eway if it would be
possible for an object as large az that would have to be to bs flying, but
since we didu't lmnow what we were looking at or how lergs it was, we de-
cided that if it were the size of a'DC-3 wing span (90 feet), it was about
five miles distent. Actually, we have no iden just how large it was since
we could rot tetermine its distance from us. When we first sighted the
objects, we decided they were sither going away from us or coming towards
us. After a short while, however, we knew they couldn't be coming towards
48, bocause we never approached them. I don't believe they could have
beea going a great rate of speed and still stayed in sight for as long as
they did. I would judge they might have beon travelling about 200 miles
per hour,

"Ky personal opinions regarding the objects are - that their speed
varied, was not consteut. When first sighted, they were going slow and
stayed within sight for quite some time. However, when we lost sight of
them, they seemed to disappear practically immediately. I think they
either put on ea tremendous burst of speed and disappeared from sight, or
else they dissipated. Also, it appeared that only one object, the large
one, was controlled, and it in turn controlled the other objects, and I
think they were ground controlled.

"In both instances, the co-pilot sizhted the objects first and called
my attention to then. The weather was clear and unlimited, with not a cloud
in the sky. We checked the wind, and it was 230-10, or out of the Southrest
at ten miles per hour. The air speed of thc ship was about 135 MPH. The
sun was below the horizon and the objects werc silhouetted against the sky,
hence we could distinguish no color or reflection."

Ralph STEVENS, co-pilot of the plane, was interviewed at 2130, 9 July
1947. STEVENS corroborated the remarks made by SNITH concerning the flight
of the plane, the time the objects were sighted, direction of the flight of
the plane, etc. There were two discrepancics in their statements as to the
size of the smaller objects and the altitude at which they were flying.
STEVENS stated that there was a big difference in the size of the large
objects and the smaller ones, and that it was hard to distinguish the shepe
of the smaller ones. STEVENS also steted that the objects wero at the same
eltitude as their plane anc ecemed to be climbing with them. In addition to
confirming SMITIU'S statements concerning the flight, etc., STEVENS stated
substantially as follows:

"I was flying the plane when I spotted the first object et 2012 on the
4th of July, eight minutes after departure from Boise, Idaho. I thought it
was an oncoming aircraft similar to ours (DC-3) shout five miles away, s0
turned on our landing lights, which is the usual signal to another plane to
let it know you're in the vicinity. I mentioned this fact to SMITH, and he
watched the object also. While we were both watching, four more objects
appeared at the samo altitude as the first. They scemed to be et the sane
eltitude as our plane, about 6000 feet. They were heading about 290 degrees
magnetic North, so I turned to follow them. We watched them for four or
five minutes, then they all merged as one and disappeared. I don't know
whether they merged in line of flight or not, nor do I know whether they
went beyond our vision or whether they dissipated.

"Two minutes later, the large object reappeared with three smaller
ones on its left and one smaller one a great distance to the right. We
had the second group in sight for about twelve minutes. The last time
seen, they were still in that formation and disappeared into the sunset.
Also, when we last saw them, they seemed to have continued climbing aftor
we levelled off and were about nine or ten thousand feet.

"At the time we saw the objects, the sun was below the horizon, but
there was quite a bright red glow above the horizon from the sunset. i
couldn't really say what distance they were from us, not knowing what they
were or how large they were. However, while we wero watching them we
radiod ahead to Ontario, Oregon, about thirty miles distent, to the weether
station there, and told them what we were seoing and asked them to go out-
side and see if they could see them. They radioed back and said they could

Sor @ @

see nothing, so the objects could have been beyond Onterio, since we had
told them that they wero between our plane and Ontario. It should also be
“noted that the personnel at Ontario would be looking at a dark sky and

may not be likely to be able to see them anyway.

"I can't say whether they are man-made disks or not, whether they are
radio controlled or not, or anything about them. They did not maneuver much
at all, except when the first group merged. All I can say is that they were
going our direction and were climbing. I don't think they were clouds, as
there hadn't been a cloud in the sky, end it would have been quite a phen-
-omenon as it was like nothing I had ever seen before. There was a big dif-
ference in the size of the objects. The smaller ones were hard to distinguish
as to shape; they were not shiny, nor did the "flip". I couldn't swear on a
stend that they were not clouds, but I think it impossible. wad they been
clouds, they wouldn't have appeared and disappeared so suddenly, end we
would have approached tha.

"As we were taxiing out to take off from Boise, the tower called us
and asked us if we had seen any disks lately. AS a consequence, we were and
had been talking about the flying disks when we sighted them. I don't believe,
however, that it was a figment of the imagination, as SMITH and I were seeing
the seme things, even the object far off to tho right in the second group,
We also called the stewardess, who had not been in on the conversation, and
without mentioning "disks" aksed her what she saw. She stated that she saw
the same things we did, which seened to prove to us that it was not our
imagination.”

In addition to the above, STEVENS stated, off the record, that he was
rather disappointed in SMITH and all the publicity he wes getting. iie
thought that SMITH was probably “grand-standing" some, and thet as far as
he, STEVENS, was concerned, he was not going to bs interviewed by any re-
porters, or go on the radio, etc. de stated that he was glad to talk to
a Navy representative about it, or to any other covernment official, and
help in any way he could, but ue certainly didn't want to be bothered with
a lot of interviews with newspspers and radio stations. STEVENS seemed to
the writer to bs e very level headed, sensible man, and not in favor of a
lot of publicity, wiereas SMITH, althouch a sensible man and all, seemed to
be more in favor of all the publicity he was getting.

Incident
LAF 1208 I
16 July 1947

MEMORANDUM FOR THE OFFICER IN CHARGE:

1. On 12 July 1947, Captain Snith, of the United Airlines, was
interviewed at the Boise Municipal Airport, Boise, Idaho. Captain
Smith was passing through Boise on a schedule flight at the time and
had a 20 minute stop-over. Captain Smith reiterated the statements
originally made by him to the press as to what he had seen in the late
evening of July lth, when 8 minutes out of Boise on the route to Seattle,
Washington. It is the opinion of the interviewer that due to the position
Captain Smith occupies, that he, Captain Smith, would have to be very
strongly convinced that he actually saw flying disks before he would open
himself far the ridicule attached to a report of this type.

FRANK M, BROWN, S/A, CIC lth aF

eo sign =

After having been afvised of ay rights ani privileges under the
26th Articole of Mar, I, SANS EH. BURNISTON, Captain, Air Corps, 0-867517,
ond Air Transport Wing (Provision), Pairfield-Suigun Army Air Bese,
California, do hereby mike this voluntary statement to
o Us, and Sgt. Tomy Stewart, whom I know to
Intelligense Office. I mke the following statement
my own free will, @uress, promise of reward or immunity:

at Mairfleld-Suigun Army Air Base, while
trave

was verified by my wife as being less than one
it was in sight.

his cject, it was not the shape of any type
igned. There was no shape of wings or fuselage.
first by the sun's reflecting off its eurface and
whioh it was traveling.

@ * BROADWAY 41268

Civil Air Patrol
AUXILIARY OF THE WU. S.ARMY AIR FORCES

WISCONSIN WING HEADQUARTERS
161 W. WIBCONGIN AVENUE

MILWAUKEE 32, wis.

WAR DEPARTMENT
SSIFIED MESSAGE CEN

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Contessa IVI
FRIGRITY

PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED, HANDLE AS €0RFISE
RESPONDENCE PER PARAS Sit end 60a (4) AR

CG €BAMA San Bernadino Calif

OG AAF Wash DC attn AC/AS 2, Counter Intel}
Division; CG Sixth Army, Attn: AC/S, & 2; CG
AMC thru wi shapers AMA, Calif attn Chies
Section

1023592 10 July

at approximately 1550 PST see ae E Moor-
96 Ftr Sq, while flying rout‘ test
51 at 20,000 feet indicated, sighted a flat
ob eos of light reflecting nature which appeared to be with-
out vertical fin or any visible wings with apparent depth
of a P 51 airplane at approximately 35, 000 feot alt rh tude
and approximate location of 34 degrees ites |} tod
117 degrees 3 ng @, Object was in
approximately 30 seconds Object vas again sighted
at "15505 PST at approximately 50000 feet altitude and over
Mount Baldy a@ppvroximate location of 34 degrees 20 minutes
latitude-117 degrees 47 minutes west longitude,

Pilot attempted to keep object in sight but was —
unable to do so, Speed of P 51 Spproximately 300 mph anc ;
climbing. March Field and other bases in area were contectec
and reported none of their ships in :the air.

ACTION: AAF
INFO: ID,
CM IN. 187 (12 Jul 47)

y= Be Seng, 7°... -~
PRO, Spec We, R&D

* -GORPIDENT Tar

et) SP rorign BOP

THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

FROM: CG ATLD ATC FORT TOTTEN, N.Y
TIME AND DATE FILED: 1423232 JULY 1947 .

TO; CG ATC ATTN CHIEF OF STa¥?

MESSAGE FROM NEWFOUNDLAND BASE COMMAND SUBJECT QUOTE FLYING DISCS UNQUOTE
GIVES FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF INTERVIEW WITH IRIC KRARSEY CMA NEWFOUNDLAND
- CONSTABULARY CLN CONSTABLE REPORTED SEEING FOUR BGG SHAPE PHOSPHORUS COLOR

BISCS ABOVE GRAND FALLS NEWFOUNDLAND AT TWO THREE THREE ZERO HOURS LOCAL

TI (‘erm sour} 4 srwox3 D180 OM Zmm0 MEMUERS LAMER PD AT FIRST APPEAS-

ANCE ACCOHDING TO KEARSEBY FOUR DISCS WERE CLOSE TOGETHER IN ABLE LINE A TRAIL
FORMATION MOVING EAST PARALLEL TO GROUMD PD SINGLE DISC LESS CLEAR BUT
TRAVELING SAME DIRECTION PD KBARSEY WOULD ROUGHLY ESTIMATE ALTITUDE OF DISCS
AT THREE ZERO THOUSAND FEET SEMICLN APPARENTLY MOVING VERY FAST aS THEY
DISAPPEARED IN ABLE FEW SECONDS PD KEARSBY SAID SHAPE OF DISC WAS LIKE
BARREL HGAD OR BOG SHMICLN BLACK SPOTS ON TAILEND SHMICLN MO SMOKE TRAIL
SEMICLN AMD HERE REPORTED THAT ANOTHER OBSERVER COMPARED SHAPE OF DISCS 10
THREE LEAF PD END OF COMMUNICATION FROM MEWFOUNDLAND BASE COMMAND PD ESTAB-
LISHED BY INTERVIEWER CMA NONCOM IN CHARGE REPEATER STATION GRAND FALLS CMA

THAT CAVU WAS WEATHER AT TIMES INDICATED

<<,
; ~ qamon Pim, MeRrOUNDLaND, AT APPROXIMATELY 10000 FRET, COURSE:
fn CLEAR WITH SCATTERED CUMULUS AT 8-10000 FEST
ay, PD coLon: SILVERY PD DISC WAS FIRST SIGHTED aBOUT’6 MILES SOUTH SoUTH »
mar PROM HARMON FIEGD BY ME MEAEMAN, TWA UEPEESBNTATIVE AND um
“WOODRUFF, PAA MEPHESENTATIVE PD DISC APPEARED ABOUT THE SAM® SPAN aS
| C484 AT 10000 FERT, WAS CIRCULAR IN SHAPE LIKE WAGONS WHEEL, DISC
RR wd la les dele ke saset exer. so vert ‘actrenptace:
OAPRATL APPRORTMATELY FIPTEEN TLRS LONG PD TRAIL WAS SIMILAR TO THE
“BRAM SESH APTER A RICH PONESED LANDING LIGHT OR SRARCH LIGHT 18 SWITCHED
(OPP PD XODACH ACME PICTOWS Wm TAKEN AND am DETW DEVELOPED STATE

SIDE. PD PHOTOS WILL BE FOMMARDED AS SOON AS THEY ARE RECEIVED BY

cRSTRIGTED dasittt #)

pw) 0

oy

MESSAGE CENTER No. | TRANSMITTING MEANS @ CRYPTOGRAPH OR CLEAR TEXT

OnIGIMATOR | DATE-TIME GROUP

CALLS STA sen. me. | PRECEDENCE TRANSMISSION INSTRUCTIONS
Pz L20047Z

v

mused beamed

SPACE ABOVE FOR SIGNAL CENTER ONLY

AACS Grow
Elmendorf Alaska

ATT ASSISTANT CHIEF OF SiAFF
INTELLIGENCE _O ORIGINAL MESSAGE a a
REFERS TO ANOTHER MESSAGE

IDENTIFICATION

~ "ie

QBJSCT RESEMBLING AN ALUMINUM COLURED BALLUON ABOUT

FEST IN DIAMETER WAS REPOKTAD SEEN AT AN UN DET.KHINZED
ALTITUDE FLYING AT A GReAT SPESD Di A NuURTH TO SUUTH

wreTErnay . - 7
+avatdnid Ul dadtetess MUTE

ZoBRA BY CULUN-.L PskRY

art + ad
aA Vee ool OWA

AND MAJOR GEYSER THIS REAUQUARTALRS PD

le as €vnriton st correspondence

fase not-required, Haudle
agraphe 511i and 6um (4), AR 380-5, 15 August 1946,

CURITY CLASSIFICATION ——@—  rnmcraruTHoriZaTtion
SIGNATURE

7 myst
+ tees

ORIGINATING AGENCY.

16—<8001-1 0 (&. 8. COVERNEERT rarmTins orrice

FORM 11 168 This form supersedes WD AGO Porm 11-168, 23 Aug 44,
1945 vas and WD AGO Form 801, 12 Mar 43, which are obsolete.

Package received from Sheriff Merle T. Wilmoth, Watseka, Ill. His
letter states the inst rummt in the package was found by a farmer at
Danforth, Ill. It landed in the middle of a section of his farm land and
burned weeds 2) feet tall to fine ash am area of 1} feet in diam. around
where the object dropped.

» instrument, consists of:
Plaster of paris body having an oval cavity thru it.
A power microphone which screws over one end of the oval cavity.
The power microphone carried the name, "Hathaniel Baldwin Inc."
Galt Lake City, Utah. Pat May 10 1910 & sept 4, 1916. Pat hos

957403 (second number not readable)

A small "Polymat" filter condenser.

Two bakelite cylinders to which is attached a net work of fine
copper wire. These were obviously coils and the impact has torn
the wire from the core. (Our radio section definitely states that
this is old stuff, or the coils were used quite some time ago,
since having been replaced by smaller more efficient coils)

(e) A piece of metal having magnetic properties obviously broken off
the power microphone as a result of the impact.

The plaster of paris body was broken up by the impact but some of the
pieces were held together by wire reinforcement inside the plaster of paris.

Mrs. Whedon 3B 274 Ext 73909 (Gig C) was shown this object by Mr.
Zimmer of the FBI. Mrs “hedon claims she knew what it was, but couldn't
tell Zimmer.