DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-24i2-0/)

FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL,
OFFICIAL JOURNAL OF THE
AMALGAMATED FLYING SAUCER
CLUBS OF AMERICA, INC.

IS - MISCELLANEOUS

The Philadelphia Division by letter dated 9/22/66,
furnished the Los Angeles Division with Issue No. 24 dated
duly, 1966, entitled "FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL", which is
the official journal of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs
of America, Inc. The Philadelphia Division received the
magazine from Mr. JARVIS H. COOPER, IRS, 401 North Broad Street,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 9/19/66, Mr. COOPER stated he
subseribed to the magazine because his son had exhibited an
interest in fljring saucers and outer space. He said that on
pages 2 and 3 of Issue No, 24 was an article which he believed
expounded the Commmist Party (CP) line.

For the information of the Bureau, the International
Headquarters of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America,
Inc. is located at 2004 North Hoover Street, Los Angeles,
California. The article, on pages 2 and 3, were allegedly
written by Master KALEN-LI RETAN, Head of the plarft KORENDOR,
which was received on 5/4/66 by special directional short-wave
radio by BOB RENAUD,

The indices of the Los Angeles Division contain no
informtion identiflable with RENAUD, and no investigation has
ever been conducted on captioned organization.

No further action is contemplated in this matter
by the Los Angeles Office, UACB.

The foregoing is furnished to the Bureau for
information,

2 + Bureau (RM) ((C~-/
i = Los oe tee ( /

fate Li G

icial Journal of the

Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.

SPECIAL AFSCA THIRD NATIONAL FLYING SAUCER CONVENTION ISSUE

ISSUENO. 24 JULY , 1966 50c

SPECIAL AFSCA

BRIGHT WORLD IN HANDS OF SAUCER MOVEMENT

(Editor's Note: This special message was
received from Master Kalen-Li Retan (head of the
planet Korendor, about 400 light years distant) on
May 4, 1966 via special directional short-wave radio
by Bob Renaud, the young electronic-technician whose
remarkable story we printed in issues #18, 19, 20,21,
and 22, and which will be continued in our next issue.

Since Bob's initial radio contact in 1961, he has
talked with the crew of a spacecraft as he watched
them on his special TV screen in his home — and
eventually met his contacts in-person; visited their
undersea and underground bases on our planet; was
taken aboard many of their spaceships; and was
actually allowed to pilot two of their small scout
craft — one on a short solo flight.)

"Kalo (Hello), friends. We will get directly to
the point of our message to you. Frankly, we are
appalled at the state of Earth at present. Despite our
constant warnings and even our actual intervention in
some instances, the condition upon your planet grows
steadily worse.

One subject on everyone's lips these days is
Vietnam. From a little civil war, it has grown
steadily and inexorably into a full scale conflict
between the world's three major powers: the United
States, the Soviet Union, and Communist China.

Many influential people have used the approach
of patriotism and love of God and Country to twist
decent human feelings into dangerous channels of
thought and action. With their charges of treason and
Sympathy with the enemy, they have aroused a good
portion of the populace to a state of fear, distrust,
and hatred of those who seek peace and love. Unfor-
tunately, because some unconventional individuals
have been associated with the peace movement, that
entire operation has been seriously hindered.

Your government is a military puppet, a mere
parrot of the monstrosity that is the Military-Indus-
trial complex. Your senators, except for a few, are
robots, speaking what they are told to say.

Your President is, unfortunately, a pawn of
their needs and demands. We have contacted him
several times concerning the state of affairs, and he
has said that he could do nothing to change them, for
if he were to speak out against the Asian conflict, he
would be removed. This is what happened to the late
Mr. Kennedy who, in his great humanitarianism, was
reluctant to sacrifice his ideals and his visions for
the sake of the Military Industrial octopus. He paid
the supreme penalty for his efforts in behalf of

CONVENTION

MESSAGE

humanity.

Make no mistake. Your government is not in the
White House or the Congress. IT IS IN THE PENTA-
GON, AND IN THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE VAST
"DEFENSE"-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES. It is THEY,
not the President or the Congressmen, who run the
United States. The facade government is merely to
allay undue alarm or suspicion of the people.

Examine another aspect of the Asian war, the
ECONOMIC side. Do you recall that, in the stock
reports just recently, the Dow-Jones average
dropped sharply BECAUSE OF A RUMOR THAT
NORTH VIETNAM HAD MADE A PEACE BID? Does
the staggering implication of this news evade you?
Stock prices suffering a heavy loss because of a
rumor that peace might come to pass!

This thought is most distressing. Your economy
relies so heavily upon war and destruction, that if it
were to stop, THE UNITED STATES ECONOMY
WOULD SUFFER A MASSIVE DEPRESSION! Your
money system would collapse like a house of cards.
Millions would be unemployed, sick, hungry and
homeless, Tremendous industrial complexes would
close their doors.

The utterly appalling fact is this: WARIS .
PROFITABLE. Highly so! Every major conflict has
been accompanied by a strong peak in your monetary
prosperity. Peace has usually been economically
painful! *

After World War 1, the nation coasted for a while
upon the fat put on during the boom of the war years.
In 1929, the bottom fell out. After the Korean War,
in the 1950's came another recession. What comes
after Vietnam? No one knows, and no one wants to
find out. The war in Vietnam is bringing an unheard-
of degree of affluence in the United States. Why kill
a good thing by ending the war? The philosopy, in
essence, is this: It is economically expedient to send
military forces to Vietnam and elsewhere in Asia in
order to wage war, because in doing so, the United
States' economy is bolstered and maintained at a high
level of prosperity; human life is secondary to the
preservation of economic well-being!

It is thus evident that, unless a drastic change is
made in the structure of your economy, war will
never end because the Military-Industrial complex
WON'T LET IT!

Many of you fear Communism. Where did that
fear come from, I ask you? From within yourself?
NO! It was brainwashed into you by the Military-
Industrial complex. Who controls all your news
media? The government and the advertisers. Who,
then, is in a position to dictate what shall be printed?

FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL

ISSUE NO. 24

Official Journal

JULY, 1966

of the

Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.

International Headquarters: 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90027,U.S.A.
Dedicated to

GABRIEL GREEN, Editor
HELEN GREEN, Asst. Ed.
FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL (6 issues-$3.00.
Membership-$1.00) is published quarterly. Copyright
© 1965 by Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of
America. All rights reserved. The information
presented in ''Flying Saucers International" does not
necessarily represent the views of AFSCA. The num-
ber after your name on the address label indicates the
issue with which your subscription expires. Subscrip-
tion renewals will start where the previous one ended,
and will be acknowledged only by the new number after
your name on future issues. A ''Time to Renew"!

The Physical, Spiritual, and Economic Emancipation of Man

A Non-profit Organization

notice will be enclosed in the last issue for which you
have paid. New subscriptions will start with the last
issue published, unless a specific starting issue num-
ber is requested. When writing to AFSCA for a reply,
enclose a stamped self-addressed envelope. Not
responsible for magazines lost in the mail due to sub-
scribers' failure to inform us of their current address-
es. Prices subject to change. Payment must accompa-
ny order. Send cash, check or money order to: AFSCA;
2004 North Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California 90027.
Phone: 662-4404. 2

FLYING

SAUCER

NEW BOOKS NOW AVAILABLE FROM AFSCA:
Price includes 15¢ mailing charge. California
residents also add 47 sales tax.)
1. COUNCIL OF SEVEN LIGHTS by George Van
Tassel, now reprinted — $3.65.
2. THE ADVENT OF THE COSMIC VIEWPOINT by
Bryant Reeve — $6.15.
3. FLYING SAUCERS THROUGH THE AGES by Paul
Thomas — $4.15.
4. OTHER TONGUES, OTHER FLESH by George
Hunt Williamson, now reprinted — $6.10.
5. SECRET OF THE ANDES by Brother Philip - $4.
6. FLYING SAUCERS AND THE THREE MEN by
Albert K. Bender — $4.15.
7. FLYING SAUCERS — SERIOUS BUSINESS by
Frank Edwards — $6.10.
8. INCIDENT AT EXETER by John G, Fuller -$6. 10.

9. THE HOLLOW EARTH by Dr. Raymond Bernard,
now available again in soft cover for $3.15.

PAST CONVENTIONS & SAUCER ACTIVITIES:
FEBRUARY 5,6, 1966: Dr. Frank E. Stranges 4th
Annual UFO Space and Science Convention was held at
the Blarney Castle Inn Annex in Los Angeles.

JUNE 4,5,6, 1966: Dr. Daniel W. Fry's Man in
Space Symposium took place at Dunsmuir, near Mt.
Shasta in Northern California.

JUNE 25,26,27, 1966: Buck Nelson's 10th Annual
Spacecraft Convention was held at Buck's Mountain
View Ranch; Route 1, Box 236; Mountain View, Mo.

BACK ISSUES of UFO INTERNATIONAL are now
selling 11 issues for $3.00, while they last (issue
#11 is now out of print). There is much timeless and
valuable information available in these magazines.

OUT OF PRINT: 1. FLYING SAUCERS: TOP
SECRET by Major Donald E. Keyhoe is now out of
print, although it is listed in our new brochure.
(Some saucer books have occassionally gone out of
print without notice.)

2. BACK ISSUES #6 and 11 are now out of print. We
still have only a few copies left of #9 which we have
priced at $1.00 each in an effort to preserve them for
serious researchers and collectors. Please do not
order these items, or any other materials which we
do not advertise.

PRICE CHANGE: The price has gone up on two
of the better known books in the saucer field, which
we must now order from England: 1. THE SKY
PEOPLE by Brinsley le Poer Trench, was $4.65.

It is now $5.10, postpaid. 2. ROAD IN THE SKY by
George Hunt Williamson, was $4.15. It is now $5.10,
postpaid. California residents please add 47 tax.

"UFOI" ISSUE #23 CORRECTIONS: Page 4, line
3: the date should be April 24, 1964, instead of
1965. On page 4, line 1 of the 7th paragraph, insert
"later, via telepathy" after ''They told him ---."

SEATTLE, WASHINGTON area residents please
note: AFSCA Unit #25 meets every 4th Friday at the
Seattle Public Library, Room 325 at 7:30 P.M.,
under the capable direction of Mr. Leverett G.
Tallman. The meeting is free, and all who are
interested in the Flying Saucer subject are invited to
come to listen and to participate in the discussion.

ZIP CODES ARE IMPORTANT: If the address
label on this magazine does not have your zip code
number on it, please notify us as to what your num-
ber is. If you don't know your number, call your
local Post Office and then let us know. Thanks!

AFSCA BROCHURES AND SAUCER-PHOTO
POST CARDS, sent to friends and acquaintances, are
a good way to help spread the word about Flying

NEWS _ IN

BRIEF

Saucers. Brochures are l¢ each (this just about pays
the postage to mail them to you). Saucer post cards
are 50 for $1.00.

WHEN WRITING AFSCA, if you wish a personal
reply to a specific inquiry, please enclose a stamped,

self-addressed envelope. No replies can otherwise
be sent. General information may be obtained via
our brochures and magazines. We are sorry that we
cannot have a lengthy correspondence with all the
hundreds of persons who would like us to do so, but
unfortunately we have neither the time nor the staff
for it — and our mail has been greatly increased in
the last few months.

SAUCER NEWS CLIPPINGS: Your response has
been wonderful! We've received so many clippings
from you helpful people that we simply hadn't enough
space to print all your individual names and cities.
So we say a big and sincere THANKS to all of you.
And please do keep 'em coming! (One reminder:
please DON'T write on or near the clippings.)

WEDDING BELLS rang on Saturday, June 4, 1966
for contactee Elary J. Willsie and Sophia Martinez
Olivares of Mexico City. The ceremony took place
at Los Angeles, California. Among those present
were Sophia's parents and her younger sister, all of
Mexico City; Mrs. Maud Willsie, mother of the
groom; and your editor, who was also official photog-
rapher for the occasion. Mr. and Mrs. Willsie will
live in Los Angeles. Congratulations and best wishes,
Elary and Sophia!

MEL NOEL, former Air Force Lieutenant and
fighter pilot, is fast becoming very well known for his
lectures on his amazing experiences with Flying
Saucers while on active duty in the service. He has
been speaking to capacity crowds wherever he goes.
On Thursday, June 23, 1966, the personable Mr.
Noel spoke to a standing-room only crowd at the
Aeronautical Sciences Building on Beverly Blvd. in
West Los Angeles. We hear that he is booked to
speak at 57 colleges across the nation! Recently he
appeared on the Louis Lomax TV Show, and has been
heard on many radio shows. He leaves shortly for
Mexico City, where he has been invited by an official
government group to speak. He has been promised
some interesting experiences by a local contactee
there, and we look forward to hearing his report on
his return! Good work, Mel, and good luck!

SID PADRICK, contactee from Watsonville,
Calif. , who spent two hours aboard a space craft,
was recently in Los Angeles when he was guest
speaker at the regular monthly meeting of the Ingle-
wood Unit of Understanding on Saturday, June 25,
1966. Meetings are held on the 4th Saturday of every
month at the Inglewood Business and Professional
Woman's Club; 820 Java St., Inglewood, at 8:00 P. M.
Donation is $1.00. Information: Mrs. Roberta T.
Forrester, Program Chairman; P.O, Box 146;
Inglewood, Calif. 90306. Phone: 677-5214. Also,
Mr. and Mrs. Lee Yates. Phone: 293-4743.

NEW AFSCA UNITS:

45. AFSCA Unit #45; Everett, Washington;

Ray and Jean Sebring, Co-Directors;

1032 S.W. 126th St.; Seattle, Wash. 98146.
46. AFSCA Unit #46; Ben Blazs, Director;

3057 Electric; Lincoln Park, Mich. 48146.
Several other new AFSCA Units have been formed
and will be listed in the next issue (#25). Persons
interested in forming AFSCA Units in their cities
should contact AFSCA Headquarters for information.

15

*

« t+ Ht %

AFSCA's

(Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America )
3rd National

FLYING SAUCER
== CONVENTION © ess

EXHIBITS $2.00 per d
BOOKS At The Beautiful, New , per day
BbITERATURE CENTENNIAL COLISEUM (4590 S. Virginia St.)

Reno, Nevada - July &,9,10, 1966

Program: 10A.M. to 11P.M.

SPEAKERS ARE: Wayne S. Aho, Carl A. Anderson, Orfeo Angelucci, Michael "X"' Barton,
Wesley Bateman, Marianne Francis, Dr. Daniel W. Fry, Calvin C. Girvin, Gabriel Green,
Dr. George King, Hanno Mayberry, Howard Menger, Laura Mundo, Mel Noel, Sidney Padrick,
Chief Standing Horse, Dr. Frank E, Stranges, Mollie Thompson, Hope Troxell, George W.
Van Tassel, Hal Wilcox.

Amazing experiences with spacecraft from other planets and their occupants by the
greatest assembly of contactee-speakers since our Los Angeles convention in 1959
/ at the Statler-Hilton.

SEE: Startling new photographic evidence —the biggest collection of Flying Saucer photos
on display in the history of the saucer movement. Actual color movies and new still
photos of Flying Saucers.

MEET: IN PERSON, PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD ACTUAL CONTACTS WITH SPACESHIPS
AND THEIR CREWS FROM OTHER WORLDS.

LEARN: About this important subject which is so vital to the welfare and survival of humanity
in our times.

ATTEND: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention. You'll be glad you did! Fill out the Advance
Registration form below. Do it Now!

For Motel & Hotel room information, write to: The Greater Reno Chamber of Commerce
P.O. Box 2109; Reno, Nevada

AFSCA 3rd NATIONAL CONVENTION ADVANCE REGISTRATION FORM
To: AFSCA Headquarters; 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90027. Phone: 662-4404.

Yes, count me in! I don't want to miss joining with you at this important convention
and helping to support this vital movement. Here is my $ . Please send me
Advance Reservation tickets ($5.00 for the 3 days, or $2.00 per day). IMPORTANT: Iam
also enclosing a stamped, self-addressed envelope for the return of my tickets. ADVANCE
REGISTRATIONS must be received at AFSCA Headquarters no later than JUNE 30th!!!

Name Street

City Zip Code

The Military-Industrial complex, by opinion-control
through the use of psycho-politics (brainwashing by
controlled news management).

Consider this: In order to survive, a commer-
cial medium, such as a newspaper or magazine,
requires a vast amount of advertising revenue. The
mere subscription fees will not cover the costs.
Thus, they depend for their continued existence upon
money paid by advertisers. Suppose, then, that the
editor of a certain newspaper decides that he is
opposed to the Vietnam policy, and says so in his
paper. The advertisers simply say to the editor,
"Either you toe the mark and print what we want, or
we'll withdraw our advertising. "'

Such pressures are a fact of life. The newsmen
are torn between their higher devotion to Truth, and
also to the lower level of their physical needs.
Rather than jeopardize their security and their
futures they, of course, submit meekly to power.
Their actions are fully understandable, and we do not
hold them responsible.

We throw the blame directly on the Military-
Industrial complex which, by its underhanded dealing,
threats of force, and economic pressure and retali-
ation, has crushed the spirit of American journalism
and turned it from a dynamic motivating force in
American life into a weak-willed, subservient
mouthpiece for the power-masters. We blame them
for the death of journalistic freedom and individuality!

ne more comment on this topic: May I say that
a better economic system is already known to the
leaders of the Flying Saucer Movement. It is the
system known as Universal Economics. As we have
said over and over before, it is the non-money
economic system which MUST be applied on your
planet before you can start to resolve most of your
major problems and thus begin to establish a highly-
advanced, non-destructive state of existance on
Earth, such as we of more advanced planets have
enjoyed for so long. INVESTIGATE THIS SYSTEM
to evaluate it for its merit — then ACT to apply it!
YOUR VERY SURVIVAL AS A CIVILIZATION MAY
DEPEND UPON IT!

Perhaps this is an opportune time to clarify a
few questions which have been asked about us.

Do we of Korendor work with the local planets
in our operations? Yes, we do cooperate with them
a great deal. However, our work on Earth is
relatively independent of the local planets. We have
many times overstepped what is considered to be the
limit of interference upheld by Venus, Mars, and
other planets. This has caused a good deal of debate
between them and us. Each time we have pointed out

that we of Korendor are basically pragmatic in nature.

Although we do respect the laws of self-destiny, we
feel also that where stepping in is required to prevent
disaster, it is our right and our duty to do so.

We have interfered in such places as the United
States, China, Russia, and on a large scale in
Vietnam. This has caused no end of consternation in
the local Tribunal of Planets. We are sympathetic to
their viewpoint, but we do feel that their policy is
limited in its capacity to achieve the desired goals.

It is our opinion that one cannot stand on the sidelines
and achieve any noticeable results.

As I have said before, we have infiltrated your
planet. We are directly involved in Earth's life.

You might say that you fave been invaded — a strong
way of phrasing it, to be sure, but nonetheless
factual, since we walk and work amongst you daily!

We have been asked about our physical appear-
ance. We are humanoid, indistinguishable from
yourselves, except that in our natural form we aver-
age three to four feet in height. Every other dimen-
sion is proportionately scaled, so that photographs of
us would not reveal our origin in any way.

We are able to increase our height while on
Earth through a technical process related to telepor-
tation. It is concerned with recording the atomic and
molecular structures of our bodies, and then repro-
ducing them identically on a larger scale. Differ-
ences in our internal structure are adjusted by the
computer which controls the reproducer.

Our most common skin color is a little darker
than yours, although we have skin colors which vary
as yours do all over the Earth. Usually, however,
we would look "'tan'' to you. We are NOT green, blue,
or heliotrope, as has been suggested!

Concerning our language, we generally use one
of two tongues and we are fairly familiar with a third.
On Korendor itself we speak the native language,
Korendian. It is similar in many ways to your own
languages since it, like yours, was originally derived
from Galingua, one of the two universal tongues.

The other is Solex Mal, which is more familiar to
you, since it is used by your local Solar System
planets. It is seldom heard now in our sector of
space, as Galingua has replaced it almost completely.

Unlike your own, however, the Korendian-
Galinguan speech is very rhythmic, and has few
sibilant sounds, such as "'s'' or ''z''. Some of the
sharper sounds like ''c'' and "'k'' are minimized. It is
a beautiful language which is very musical and
pleasant to hear.

Perhaps you would be surprised to learn that
ancient Latin was liberally taken from Galingua.
There are many similarities in the two languages.
Even modern English has roots on other worlds!

In concluding my message to you, may I say —
people of Earth: open up your minds and your hearts
to the world around you. There is so much to be
learned, so much to be discovered. Don't waste
precious hours and days in bigotry and ignorance,
and in senseless fighting and killing. To do so is
truly a crime against nature and humanity.

At this stage where you have the very stars
almost in your grasp, how irrational and barbaric it
is to spend futile hours warring with your brothers.
As an old saying on your world puts it: ''As you make
your bed, so shall you lie in it.'' The decision does
not seem difficult. Here are the alternatives: A
world living in harmony, justice, security and abun-
dance for all, or a world continuing to reap the
bloody harvests that grow from the seeds of hatred
and mistrust. If left to their own devices, the
majority of mankind will forge onward to a destiny of
destruction and annihilation, oblivious to the danger
in their actions. They are short-sighted; they care
little for the future.

It is you New Age people, dedicated to the wel-
fare of all mankind, and having the vision and under-
standing of the ways to build the better world of
tomorrow, who must lead the way. You have the
future in YOUR hands, if you will but shoulder your
responsibilities. The Flying Saucer Movement, as
you call it, belongs to you. Support it in every way
possible. Help it to grow until it is influential
thoughout your world. Go out into the world and
guide the misguided, find the lost, and recover the
strays. We are behind you all the way. As we have
said many times before, we will take two steps for
every one that you take to help yourselves.

The time has come for nations to ''bury the
hatchet", to clasp hands, and plunge into the future
together — in co-operation toward mutual goals.

Look to the heavens and realize that your destiny
is not in bleak atomic desolation, but in the magnifi-
cent greatness that you can achieve if you will but
work for it. Choose the right path and you will soon
qualify to join with us in our journeys amongst the
stars.

Va i Luce (Go in Light)."

Kalen-LiRetan 3

THERE Been et Ola eaten Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America sa ee a

JULY 8,9,10, 1966
FRIDAY, JULY 8, 1966 | SATURDAY, JULY 9, 1966

TIME | MAIN HALL | GOLD ROOM |f MAIN HALL [GOLD ROOM __|
REGISTRATION: 1). i
1OAMJINVOCATION: Dr. Frank E, Stranges. HAL WILCOX AFSCA Unit Directors
to |Keynote Address: GABRIEL GREEN, "From Earth to Alpha | Meeting. Those inter-
10:50|thing Big Is Happening"'. Introduction of Centauri'' Ch: Chief | ested in forming
speakers, & saucer movement personalities. Standing Horse AFSCA Units invited.
WAYNE AHO HANNO MAYBERRY DR, Frank STRANGES
"Secrecy Must Go--- "Message From "The Hollow Earth
People Must Know!" Triangulum" Mystery"
Ch:Orfeo Angelucci Ch: Laura Mundo Ch: Orfeo Angelucci

Chief Standing Horse CARL ANDERSON MICHAEL BARTON
"My 4 Day Trip to "I Was Teleported Into] "UFO's and World
Mars, Venus,Clarion, A Flying Saucer" Prophesy"

& Orion'' Ch: Mel Noel Ch: Mel Noel Ch: G. Green

HOPE TROXELL CALVIN GIRVIN DR. GEORGE KING
"Evolved Man of the "J Was an Agent for tha ''The Nine Freedoms"

Stars'' Extraterrestrials"
Ch: Michael Barton Ch: Wes Bateman Ch: Wayne Aho

HOWARD MENGER HANNO MAYBERRY DR. DANIEL W. FRY | WESLEY BATEMAN
"Journey to the Moon" | ''Contact With a7 Foot}] "The White Sands "The Frequency

Tall Spaceman" Incident" Barrier"
Chairman: Hal Wilcox | Ch:Ch.Standing Horse Ch: George Van Tassel] Ch: Marianne Francis
DR.FRANK STRANGES] MARIANNE FRANCIS |] GABRIEL GREEN ORFEO ANGELUCCI
"A Space Beings Visit | "Starcraft Contact" "Abundant New World:| "Secret of the
to the Pentagon" The Promise for Tom- Saucers"
Chairman: Dan Fry Ch: Hanno Mayberry morrow'"'Ch:F,Stranges| Ch: Hanno Mayberry

| SUNDAY, JULY 10, 1966
I MAIN _HALL GOLD ROOM

Your Reno host, Miguel Ribera, Dir., AFSCA Unit No.5.

Flying Saucer Council
Meeting (for all speak-
ers only). Ch: Gabe
Green. Discussion of
ways to improve effect
iveness of Flying Sauc-
er Movement.Come pre
pared with suggestions.

Space Tapes(12:15-1:15)

CARL ANDERSON
"Kumar, Wonder Man
From Mars"

Ch: Frank Stranges

GEORGE VanTASSEL | SIDNEY PADRICK
"Flying Saucer Land - | "Saucer Ride-1965"

ing at Edwards Air
Force Base''Ch:D. Fry] Ch: Wes Bateman

MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs)

DR. GEORGE KING CALVIN GIRVIN
"Physical Space Con- | ''Moon Mysteries

tact in Hollywood" Revealed"

Ch: Michael Barton Ch: G. Green
WAYNE AHO MARIANNE FRANCIS
"Flying Saucers and "Messages From Our
the Latter Days" Space Brothers"

Ch: Carl Anderson Ch: Calvin Girvin

5:30 to 7:00PM DINNER _ |Space Tapes(6:15-7:15}] DINNER Space Tapes(6:15-7:15) | DINNER Space Tapes(6:15-7:15)

WESLEY BATEMAN LAURA MUNDO "A SIDNEY PADRICK HOPE TROXELL
"Flying Saucer Saucer Researchers "2 Hours Aboard an "Temples of the High
Propulsion" (Slides) Responsibility to Hu- |] ExtraterrestrialSpace4 Places"

Ch: Sid Padrick manity'"' Ch:H.Menger || ship" Ch: H. Menger Ch: Carl Anderson

MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs) |] MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs)

MEL NOEL "Investi- | MICHAEL BARTON GEORGE Van TASSEL | Chief Standing Horse
gating Flying Saucers | "Flying Saucer Slide "Spaceship Contact at | "Christmas 1962 on
Inside the U.S. Air Photos" Giant Rock" Jupiter"

Force" Ch: G. Green | Chairman: Hal Wilcox} Ch: George King Ch: Calvin Girvin

DR. DANIEL W. FRY | ORFEO ANGELUCCI COLOR MOVIE: LAURA MUNDO

"The Curve of Devel- "Concret Evidence" "We Have Seen The "Flying Saucers and
10:00 | opment" Saucers" the Father's Plan"

Chairman:Sid Padrick | Ch: Wayne Aho Ch: George Van Tassel | Ch: Marianne Francis

10:10 | Question Period. Writ-| Written questions Question Period: Writ-] Written questions
ten questions answered answered by today's ten questions answered] answered by today's

11:00 | by Main Hall speakers Gold Room speakers. by Main Hall speakers. Gold Room speakers.
Ch: Gabriel Green Ch: Michael Barton Chairman: Gabe Green| Ch: Frank Stranges

The appearance of the speakers on our program does you with an opportunity to hear and to evalu-
not constitute an endorsement by AFSCA of their in- ate Flying Saucer Movement speakers and ;
formation or viewpoints. In the American tradition their information. You be the judgé.

of freedom of information and ideas, AFSCA provides Taped space songs by Bob Marcus.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, contact: AFSCA HEADQUARTERS; 2004 N. Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California 90027. Phone: 662-4404.

HOWARD MENGER HAL WILCOX

"Free Energy: Tomor-]| ''Zemkla, Interplane-
row's Revolutionary tary Avatar"
Power" Ch: Geo. King | Ch: Laura Mundo

| MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs)

DAN FRY MEL NOEL "I Photo-
"Saucer Movies" graphed Flying Saucers
GABE GREEN as anAir Force Fight-
"Saucer Slides" er Pilot"Ch:H, Troxell

Question Period: Writ-] Written Questions
ten questions answered] answered by today's
by Main Hall speakers.|Gold Room speakers.
Chairman: Gabe Green | Chairman: Mel Noel

Convention Close.

No smoking permitted in lecture and exhibit
halls. The Dick Miller Space Tapes played at
lunch and dinner hours are all different.
Program subject to change without notice.

FLYING SAUCER

COMING 1966 FLYING SAUCER CONVENTIONS

JULY 8,9,10: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention,
Centennial Coliseum, Reno, Nev. (See details on back)
JULY 15,16,17: WAYNE AHO sponsors the

Northwest's 5th Annual Interplanetary Age Conven-
tion. Lectures, exhibits and New Age topics. Ad-
vance registrations — $1.00 per day for adults, 50¢
for students. Write to: Mrs. Lorena Vogt; 815 N.E.
110th; Seattle, Wash. Phone: Emerson 3-0956.

AUGUST 6 thru 14th: DR. NEVA DELL
HUNTER'S 12th Annual Quimby Conference of Trans-
lation. Lectures and discussions on New Age Topics,
including the stars, science and metaphysics. In
lovely scenic country at a beautiful, modern motor-
hotel. $2.50 per day, attendance. Information from:
Quimby Center; P.O. Box 453; Alamogordo, N. M.

AUGUST 19,20,21: SPACE RESEARCH, Inc.'s
Second Annual Convention, at the North Branch
YMCA in Spokane, Washington. Scenic location near
the Spokane River. Indoor and outdoor convention
activities. For information, write to: Space
Research Inc., No. 6815 Julia, Spokane, Wash.

OCTOBER 22,23: GEORGE VAN TASSEL'S 13th
Annual Spacecraft Convention at Giant Rock, Calif. in
the desert 17 miles north of Yucca Valley. Bring
your own camping equipment and enjoy the outing.

OCTOBER 29,30: 10th ANNUAL NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA SPACECRAFT CONVENTION, Clare-
mont Hotel, Berkeley, Calif. Info: Angela Kilsby;
1265 Montgomery Blvd.; San Francisco, Calif. 94127.

OUR NEW NAME: Our magazine, formerly
called ''UFO International", has now become "Flying
Saucers International'', which we feel to be a more
appropriate title, since Flying Saucers are no longer
Unidentified Flying Objects as far as we are concern-
ed. Flying Saucers have become a serious issue
with thinking people all over the world. We believe
that most of the objects which have been sighted have
been of extraterrestrial origin, controlled by intelli-
gent beings who, in form, are very much like us.
Therefore, we hope you will understand our reasons
for changing titles, and that you will continue to
enjoy reading our publication under its new banner.

DR. RAYMOND BERNARD, founder of the
Biosophical Society of Santa Caterina, Brazil, passed
away on Sept. 10, 1965. He was the author of ''The
Hollow Earth" and several other books concerned
with the hollow earth theory.

MARIA ELLIOTT, contactee, psychic and
founder of Maria Creative Womanhood Foundation,
was a recent guest on the Bob Grant Radio Show, and
the Pamela Mason TV Show. Glamorous Maria now
has her own program every Tuesday afternoon at
2:30 p.m. on KTYM radio. She may be seen in
person every Wed. evening at Holland House Restau-
rant, 8:00 p.m. in the downstairs meeting room.

An interesting program may be heard on New Age
Topics, and free readings are given. For more
information about Maria's appearances, classes,
etc., phone 657-1631, or write: Dr. Maria Elliott;
1543 Sunset Plaza Drive; Los Angeles, Calif. 90069.

DR. GEORGE KING, founder of the Aetherius
Society, was host at the official opening of the
Society's new headquarters at 6202 Afton Place; Los
Angeles, Calif. 90028; on March 5, 1966. After the
program Dr. King personally escorted us around the
attractive quarters. He also reported that a high
Space Being in physical form had visited there
recently for an hour and fifteen minutes and, after

14

NEWS _ IN

BRIEF

walking around the premises, left his blessing on the
Aetherius Society and its work. For further inform-
ation call 465-9652, or write to the above address.

DELLA LARSON, who for over a decade was the
guiding light and main instigator of Flying Saucer
meetings and activities in the San Francisco Bay
Area, passed away on October 25, 1965. She was
70 years old. She will be remembered for her
energetic and enthusiastic dedication to the goals of
the Flying Saucer cause, as well as for the highly
successful annual Northern California Space Craft
Conventions which she organized for nine years.
(Della, we salute you!)

MAX MILLER, former publisher of the now-
defunct ''Saucers'' magazine, and author of ''Flying
Saucers: Fact or Fiction" (now out of print), has a
new role. He is now editor-publisher of ''Real'' mag-
azine which may be found on the newstands for 50¢.
The August '66 issue devotes about half of its space to
the Flying Saucer subject and will be well worth your
investigation.

WiLBUR MILLER, one of the early researchers
in the Flying Saucer Movement, passed away on
March 5, 1966. He was known for his fine channel
contacts with several Space Beings, including Monka
of Mars. He also was the co-author — with his wife,
Evelyn — of the book ''We of the New Dimension."
Although he was a native of Missouri he had, in
recent years, been a resident of Los Angeles and of
Morongo Valley, Calif. (Good journey, Will!)

HOPE TROXELL, founder of the School of
Thought, now situated in Independence, Calif. (P.O.
Box 458), reported recently that the neighboring
towns of Bishop and Lone Pine had partial blackouts
during an evening channel (teltpathic) session she was
having with the Space Brothers. The lights in Inde-
pendence went out completely for several minutes by
a gradual fade-out, and then came on again in the
same manner. During this time, the Space Being
speaking through Hope said to those present: ''Be not
afraid. We are guardians of the race. Protection
will be given to those in the area."

HAL WILCOX made a fine guest appearance on
the Joe Pyne TV Show, April 30, 1966. Hal passed
the lie-detector test with flying colors and conducted
himself with dignity and fortitude, which isn't always
easy on the Joe Pyne Show. During the test, Hal
stated that he had taken a saucer ride to visit the
second planet from the star, Alpha Centauri.

M.I.N.D. stands for Mental Investigations of
New Dimensions, an organization recently formed by
Wesley and JoNell Bateman. Their activities include
meetings, courses and public appearances. They
have demonstrated on several occassions for groups
of up to 20 people, their ability to telepathically
direct the movements of visable spacecraft overhead.
Write: M.IL.N.D.; 4916 Franklin Ave.; Hollywood,
California 90027. Phone: 661-1731.

HELEN & GABRIEL GREEN contributed their
bit to the education of nearly 300,000 young people to
the saucer subject at the Teen-Age Fair, April 1 thru
10 at the Hollywood Palladium, where AFSCA had a
booth to exhibit saucer photos, show slides, and to
disseminate information. We handed out over 13,000
brochures and saucer photo post cards, and talked
ourselves hoarse answering questions for 12 hours
each day. Gabriel also made over a dozen radio and
TV appearances and interviews during the Fair.

We also had another booth at the National
Aviation and Aerospace Exhibition at the Pan Pacific
Auditorium, May 17 thru 22. Yes, we've been busy!

sierrs ce

|
UFO SIGHTED BY
LEWISTON PEOPLE |
An unidentified Qying object
et onal a
persons.

Z
a
z |
S
<~

e London Free Press

Outarios Foremost Newspaper

118th YEAR OF PUBLICATION

LONDON, ONTARIO,

TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 1966—36 PAGES

Tracked by Radar

UFOs Sighted Over Wide Section of District

An unidentified flying ob-
ject wis tracked briefly on
radar by a US. Air Force
base in Michigan Iast night,
and « multitute of new sight-
ings were reported by Western
Ontario residents

A retired U.S. Marine Corps
major sald yesterday “there is
substantial evidence” that
they are observation devices
“controlled by a superior civ-
iization.”

Sightings of the objects
were reported last night over
an area stretching from Sar-
nia to Kintore, northwest of

Woodstock.
Objects came in a variety of
forma, according to their ob-
servers.

Sarnia. And another giving off
red, white and blue flashes.
There was a red one in Lon-
don that had a pulsating white
halo. The one st Kintore was

‘The mysterious

There was gn orange one at

some were travelling slowly
with intermittent
speed.

A spokesman at the US
Air Force base in Selfridge,
Mich, sald one was tracked
briefly on radar,
not say what It was,

Some observers mid their
sightings lasted gfor about

bursts of

but ‘could

fet planes carrying the usual is far more advanced than
red and green running lights
and

trails,

leaving white vapor

Maj, Donald E. Keyhoe, the

Marine officer who advanced
the outer-space-spy-in-the-sky
theory on behalf of the Na-
tional Investigations Commit-
tee on Aerial

to
Phenomena,

anything we have and is con-
trolled by a superior civiliza-
tion,” he told a press confer-
ence,

under Intelligent control,” he
added. He urged the air force

ings and stop ridiculing the

“These things are real and

“end the secrecy on sight-

Ontario sightings came from
London and Sarnia.

ford St. E., London, reported
secing a white light in the
northeast sky, headed toward
Stratford at 7:25 p.m.

Floyd Baxter, at 7:40 reported

Thorndale, & mother and her
two children saw a white light,
“quite high in the sky, that
seemed to be blinking.”

Mrs. J. H. Haynes, of ‘Kin-
tore, sald “there was no sound
and we watched it for 10
minutes, anyway. It would
brighten up, then it would dim
down.”

Mrs. J, Fielding, of 1025 Ox-

A ‘Thorndale ‘area man,

& bright white light that in-
termittently faded to dull red

Some of them were high-
tailing it through the sky like
mad and some of them were
sitting stock-still in mid-air,
Some were poking along and

seven minutes, Other reported
keeping the object in sight for
up to two hours.

The Free Press sent five
men out Martian-hunting, two
of them in & chartered plane,
but found only two high-flying

called on the U.S. Government
yesterday to release all the
information it has on UFO
sightings.

“There ts substantial evi-
dence we are being observed
by some sort of device which

!
THE SUN-BULLETIN biaghes ne #6

imton,

of flying saucer photos

‘The director of Unit 40 of the
‘Amalgamated Flying Saucer
Clubs of America is not con-

“I know
momy to know it a star does
not behave in that manner,”

Tuesday. He hopes to talk with
others who saw the object.

Mr, Reynolds, a construction |

foreman, is @ years old. He
has a large file of photographs
of flying saucers and other ma-
terial relating to space flight.

He admits that not all sight-
Ings are mysterious, and told of
the time two persons called him
to tell him about strange lights
seen over Binghamton,

competent witnesses” who have
seen them.

Keyhoe, who has written
several books on the subject
of UFO's, is director of the
investigations committee.

Te majority of the Western

DETROIT — (UPI)
The U.S. Air Force closed
its books today on the case
of two “visits” by unidenti-
fied flying objects, It's ver-
dict: swamp gas.

But some of the people
who witnessed what they
thought was a landing by
glowing, ex tr aderrestria
space craft, were not com-
pletely convinced the ex-
perts were right.

{THE TELEGRAM, Teronto, Sat, March 26, 1966

Notstar,sayscollector Swamp gas still ‘flying’

Dr. J. Allen Hynek, the
top Air Force adviser on
UFO sightings, climaxed
three days of on-the-scene
investigation. by telling a
news conference it ap-
peared “very likely”
swamp gas was responsible
for mass reports of strange
glowing objects this week at
Hillsdale and Dexter in
southern Michigan.

William Van Horn, Hills-

report from two college
co-eds who said they saw the
UFO close-up as it swept,
past their window. {

Other UFO sightings.)
meanwhile, were reported]
from a drive-in restaurant)
in Des Moines; from some,
police officers in St. Louis;
from a truck driver on aj
Michigan interstate high-|
way; from sheriff's depu-
ties in Toledo, Ohio; from @

seeing an orange and yellow
light moving very slowly to
the northeast. He estimated it
to be more than 1,000 feet
high.

Fifteen minutes lpter at Kin-
tore, six miles northeast of

“It was moving ever so slow-
ly," she added.

Her daughter, Wendy, 15-
year-old Ingersoll District Col-
leginte Institute student, also
maid sho saw a “clear white

—

Mont.-Star, 4-19-66
| Photographed
IF lying Saucer,
sidestepped mention of the) Picture Censored}=

light which kept dimming and
getting brighter.”

Larry, her 13-year-old broth-
er, saw the same object but
he insisted that when It be-
came dim “I could see @ red
polor coming from it.”

In London, James T. Dayus,
be 072 Hutton Rd, came home
& cub meeting with three
ig boys at $:20. He sight-

Associated Press ed an object moving southward
RAVENNA, Obio, April 19 in the aky.
— “We were close, closer than 1 saw it first at 8:20 travel-
Tever want to be again,” said ting at an enormous rate of
a deputy sheriff who chased gpecd almost directly south.
an unidentified flying object Then it swooped back up
from Ohio into Pennsylvania. northward and never moved

Hundreds of persons in beth for 4m hour.”
states reported seeing the Mr. Dayus said “it was a
“brilliant and shiny” object mass of red and biue lights
early Sunday morning. flashing off and on. It was no

Police Chief Gerald Buchert Plane: , There wasn't
of Mantua, about eight miles °°

any

{eh

Lewiston police said Patricia
Landry of 35 Tarr Ave. spotted
UFO at about 9:17 p.m.
above her home. |
According to police, the}
Landry woman and seven other
persons spotted the object which!
was described as bright biue}
and gray in color, oval in shape. |

Tt was sfid the UFO hovered!
for a few seconds and then
“wok off" at a high rate of
speed in an easterly direction,

man reported the
object hovered over Hutton
Sideroad in London for more
than half an hour, She said it
was @ red light, high in the
sky, around which a white
ring seemed to spread out,
then pull back, intermittent-
ly.

A star - like object coasted
across the sky over Sarnia
last night and stopped in the
northeast where it remained
for more than two hours.

To the naked eye the ob-
ject appeared as a very
bright st-r except that red
and blue flashes could be
seen.

Sarnia police received sev-
eral calls, beginning about
7:30 p.m. The object was first
seen in the northwest,

Tt appeared to be about 70
degrees above the horizon.

People clustered on street
corners to point at and dis-
cuss the object. Opinions on
what people aw varied,

Cpl. Robert Symington, of
the Sarnia police department,
said “I saw it but I don’t be-
eve anything until it's prov-
en to me.”

The object seemed to bob
and weave slightly like an or-

“One turned out to be the
ryt Ee arog d
Loge ease te gpg

car on Ely
laughed.

Park hill,”

And even while the two
most spectacular Michigan
sightings now wore the tag
of an “official explanation,”
UFO sightings continued to
\Pop Up across the country,
in rural areas and cities |

dale civil defense director,
said he was “dissatisfied”
with the explanation be-
cause Hynek's investigation
of the sighting was “too
brief" and because Hynek

farmer in Upper Sandusky,|
Ohio; from a housewife at)
McComb, Miss.; a news
man at Tomah, and a)
man at Bangor, Maine, who! «.

took a potshot at his object.| Pether

told him not to‘release it.

saucers put

alike

POLICE CHIEF ‘CONVINCED THEY SAW SOMETHING

Six Teens Tell of ‘Chase’ by Buzzing, Lighted UFOs

By ROBERT KISTLER
Denver Post Staff Writer

Six picnicking Denver teen-agers reported Thursday
night they were chased for an hour by unidentified fying
Objects in Daniels Park south of Denver in Douglas County.

The high schgol students—three boys, three girls—told
Police Chief John C. Maclvor of Littleton they witnessed un-
explained, apparently “hovering” red, blue and white lights
accompanied by a series of pulsating buzzing sounds which
began about 9:30 p.m.

‘The teen-agers, all 17, who described what they saw
hesitantly, were described by Maclvor as being “sincere,
‘cold sober and a little shaken by what they saw.”

The group appeared at Maclvor's office shortly before
ll p.m.

, .. “I was real skeptical at first,” Maclvor said. “But each
of the kids called their parents—who knew they'd been pic-
nicking—to tell them where they were.

“| don't know what they saw,” he said, “but I'm con-
vinced they saw something.”

Alan Scrivner, son of Mr. and Mrs. Russell Scrivner of
10 Jackson St, a junior at East High School, gave the
fdliowing account:

Scrivner and five friends drove to Daniels Park, 10-12
Injles southeast of Littleton, about 6:30 p.m. They parked the
car and walked about a city block down a small incline and
up again to a stone shelter built in the side of a hill.

The group was sitting around a fire they'd built inside
when they heard “what sounded like a man walking on top
of the shelter.” The roof can easily be reached on foot from
the slanting hillside.

Scrivner and Don Otis, an East High junior, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Elmo Otis, 1939 Fairfax St., stood on top of the shelter
and shined a flashlight into the surrounding area. They
saw nothing.

The two—leaving the others behind in the shelter—made
their way through the underbrush back to the road. “I
thought someone was messing around my car,” Scrivner
said.

“Just as we got to the car," he said, “both of us heard
a.real weird buzzing noise. It seemed to be all around us.”

As they reached the car, the youths saw “two red lights
—about a foot each in diameter—about two feet off the
ground and parallel to each other.” There was a white light
in the center of the reds.

The lights, about 20 feet apart, appeared to be in a field
on the far side of the road “about 25 yards” from the
car. The two, thinking “it might be two parked cars or
something,” crouched in the ditch and waited.

About three minutes later, they again approached the
car, They saw and heard nothing. They returned to the
shelter.

The four in the shelter said that, while the two had
been gone, they'd heard the same “‘footstep-like’ sound on

the roof again. Two of the girls said they'd also seen a “tall

Spokane Daily Chronicle, Saturday, April 2, 1968. __|

ce December
Area UFO Buffs Report
Skies Clear of Saucers

Recent sightings in other sec-jsouth of Spokane at Christmas)

tions of the country have stim
lated interest in unidentified ff;
ing objects in the Spokane a:
but none has been reported seen
in this locality since Decmeber.
That was reported today by

ave been

area.
Blue Streak Seen

me, but no subsequent sightings |
reported by the UFO)
buffs since that time in this!

She said the object was seen}

Mrs. Jack A. Campbell, Route 3,/as a streak of blue, which)
director of the Spokane unit of/Mashed straight across the sky
the Amalgamated Flying Saucer) in the vicinity of Browne's Moun-|

Clubs of America.

tain, southeast of the city. Mrs.

Mrs. Campbell said there is|Campbell said it could not have
going to be a regional convention) been a falling meteor or similar
of the flying saucer clubs in Spo-/object, as its movement was

kane in early summer, and a) horizontal rather than vertical.

lecture By a Seattle authority on) The Amalgamated Flying Sau-||

Montreal Gazette, 4-30-66

World |

Super-Space
Sought By Soviets

MOSCOW — (Reuters) —

necessary to look for extrater-

man, who might've been wearing a raincoat,” dart through
the light showing through the window into the area. They
also said they heard his footsteps.

The group decided to leave,

As they were walking back to the car, Otis turned and
saw “a real bright flash behind the hill over the shelter
and it lit up the whole area.”

Buzzing ‘All Around’

The ominous buzzing began again. No direction, “just
all around — never heard anything like it In my life,”
Scrivner said. Shortly afterward as the group neared the
car, they all agreed they saw the same thing:

Two blue lights hovering low in the sky, about three-
quarters of a mile away. The lights were stationary and
went from bright to dim. A third — white — light appeared
to rise up and down between the blues and “lit up the
area.”

No outline —other than the lights—was visible.

They perched atop the car's hood and watched the blue
and white lights “off and on” for about a half hour. The
lights appeared in back of the shelter — in the opposite di-
rection from the first lights seen in the field.

Twenty minutes after the blues appeared, another set—
these, blues with a bright red in the center — appeared “‘off
to the left of the others and about a block away.” These
hovered near the ground. The buzzing continued,

The night was overcast with no stars visible but “real

os

Deputy Gets Too
lose to ‘Saucer’

north of Ravenna, said he took
a picture of the object from
his front yard but the air force

Buchert said it looked Yo) i was higher and further

A neighbor, Harold J. Ken-
nedy, of 580 Kingsway Drive,
said he saw it around 9 p.m.
and “it was sitting low in the
jnorthern sky,” By 10 pm. the

nament on a

to the south, in a stationary
position.

white for more
hours.

than

*THE DENVER POST Friday April@, 1966 3

clear beneath the clouds where the lights were.” As the third
set of lights hovered, the youths agreed they could see a dark
outline between the lights. ;

“It looked like.a black football—the blue lights on each
end — with an orange on top, like a bubble. The red light
was at the bottomi. It didn’t move up and own, but did cast
a beam of light at the ground,” Scrivner said.

"Car Didn't Work Right’

The youngsters piled in car — a 1%4 Ford — and
started out of the park.

“You'll all think we're nuts,” Scrivner said later, “but
my car didn’t work right. I could get it up to about 30 (miles
an hour) then it would cut out like someone turned the
ignition off. Then it would start up again.”

Scrivner also complained that the radio was “playing
nothing but static’ while they left the immediate area of the
shelter

As they drove off, two of the girls and Otis saw what
appeared to be a “large, oval circle of light — it covered
the whole road — following the car.”

Mary Zolar, daughter of Mr, and Mrs, Jack A. Zolar,
45 Fairfax St, a senior at East, was in the back seat with
two others.

“It was huge and glowing,” she said, “and came right
up to the back of the car, then went out. It lasted about
three seconds.”

As the car left the park area, it quit “missing out" and

| the radio played normally, Scrivner said.

Called Sheriff's Office
) The youths stopped at a service station and called the
Arapahoe County sheriff's office, then went to Maclvor’s
office.
Maclvor said “one of the impressive things about their
story” was all six didn’t claim to have seen the exact same
thing at the same time.

tree,

The sighting followed a sim-
ilar experience Sunday night
by about 100 residents of Ket-
Ue Potnt who watched an ob-
Ject glow red, blue, green and
two

Soviet scientists, undeterred by:
Western skepticism, believe it is)
possible that a super-civilization|
exists in space and is trying to’
make contact with earth.
Because of Moscow's refusal]
|to abandon hope, a new contro-
|versy may be started in world
jastronomy circles
Western experts scoffed a}
lyear ago when a young Russian’
stronomer, Nikolai Kardashev,|
claimed be heard strange sig-'
jnals from space and speculated]
they might have come from a}
|man-made radio source
A popular science magazine
|then polled eight leading Soviet)
scientists to find out what they!

restrial civilizations,” said Ac-
ademician Viadimir Kotelnikov,
58, a veteran radio engineer. }

The Russians say it's timelwere close, ey ata
earthmen started investigating! ean,
whether there may be sister tY Sheriff who chased an un-
civilizations in space. Three/dentified flying object from
months agoa group of Soviet/Ohio into Pennsylvania,
astronomefs suggested a world-| Hundreds of persons in both
wide research program. states reported seeing the
Last April, Kardashev, 34,"‘Drilliant and shiny’ object
tuned his sensitive radio-tele-jearly Sunday morning.

scope to CTA-102, a quasi-stellar; Police Chief Gerald Bucert
radio source originally dis-iof Mantua, about eight miles
covered by the Mount Wilson-lorth of Ravenna, said he took
Palomar Observatory in Pasa-\, picture of the object from his

dena, Calif
The scientist said the signals/TOM yard but the Air Force

he picked up were 1,000,000!0l¢ Bim not to release it.

RAVENNA, Ohio (AP) — "We

}
Buchert said it looked like

“And a couple of them are real shook up,” he added.
The operations officer at Lowry Air Force Base said
Friday he'd received a call apparently from the Arap-

“‘two table saucers put togeth- [52 county sheriff, reporting the sightings.

er.”

Portage County Deputy Sher-
iff Dale Spaur said he and his
partner, W. L. Neff, ‘‘were
close” to the object in separate
cars and chased it 86 miles for
an hour and a half, from near
Ravenna to Conway, Pa,, near
Pittsburgh.

Spaur said he clocked it at
Speeds up to 103 miles per hour,
From the ground Spaur said it

erford, 742 Harrison St.,

Others in the group were Michael Simington, son of Mr.
and Mrs. James E. Simington, 773 Jackso nSt., a junior at
East; Patty Retherford, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Neal Reth-
a junior at Mapleton High School,
and Kaye Hurley, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Lioyd Hurley,
57% Montview Blvd., a junior at Machebouf High School.

Two other UFO sightings were reported in the state, one
in Delta and the other in Denver.

Delta Police Chief D. C. Morgan, patrolman Earnest
Markley and reporter Don Prather of the Delta Independent
watched an object which was “glowing, green in color and

looked like the head of a flash- Very bright.” The men observed it for almost two hours be-
Light, about 40 feet wide and 18/fore it disappeared by “rising straight up.”

feet high. In Denver, Terry Datz, 19,'a University of Denver stu-
Spaur said the lines of the ob- dent, said he and Dennis Sullivan of Mt. Vernon, N. Y.,
ject were very distinct, “Some- sighted about seven UFOs which appeared “garbage can lid
body had control over it,’’ he Size.”
said. ‘It wasn't just floating The students said the objects disappeared into the clouds
qf) around, It can maneuver.” after about 10 minutes.

unidentified flying objects is\cer Clubs of America is a non-|
scheduled by the local unit)profit- organization conducting)
April 9. research and investigation into
Mrs, Campbell-said she was/the subject of flying saucers, in-|
among several Spokane persons/terplanetary travel and commu.
who saw such a flying objectimication and related subjects.

think |times stronger than ae
(Young Techniques) reported) “There are a number of} - 5
that no one is prepared to rule|elements which do not contra-!
out the possibility. jdict the theory that there is)

Friday, “Technika Molodezhi"’|earthbound radio emissions.
agree completely that it is| another civilization,” he said. be Hise ry

AFSCA

- WAYNE S. AHO; The New Age Foundation, Inc.;
8 Smith St.; Seattle, Wash. 98109.

Publish: 'The Aquarian Dawn" (Donation basis).

- CARL A. ANDERSON;
2522 E. Pearson Ave.;

- ORFEO ANGELUCCI;
4160 Verdugo Road; Los Angeles, Calif. 90065.

- MICHAEL "X'' BARTON; Futura Press;

5949 Gregory Ave.; Hollywood, Calif. 90038.
Phone: 464-0441.

- WESLEY BATEMAN; Mental Investigations of New
Dimensions (M.I.N.D.); 4916 Franklin Ave.;
Hollywood, Calif. 90027. Phone: 661-1731.
Publish: ''Prism'"' (12 issues-$3.00).

- MARIANNE FRANCIS; Solar Light Center;

Rt. 2, Box 572-C; Central Point, Oregon 97501.
Publish: "Starcraft" (4 issues-$2.00).

- DR. DANIEL W. FRY; Understanding, Inc.;

P.O. Box 105; Merlin, Oregon 97532.

Publish: ''Understanding" (12 issues-$2.50).
- CALVIN C. GIRVIN;

6711 Yucca St.; Hollywood, Calif. 90028.

- GABRIEL GREEN; Amalgamated Flying Saucer
Clubs of America, Inc.; 2004 N. Hoover St.;

Los Angeles, Calif. 90027. Phone: 662-4404.
Publish: ''Flying Saucers International"
(6 issues-$3.00).

- DR. GEORGE KING; The Aetherius Society;

6202 Afton Place; Hollywood, Calif. 90028.
Publish: ''The Aetherius Society Newsletter"
(Donation basis). Phone: 465-9652.

Fullerton, Calif,

SPACE
THE COCKEYED BALLAD

There's a cockeyed feeling in the world today
That power politics is here to stay.
But China, Russia and the U.S.A.
Boy—don't let them fool you!
Take a look at this world of ours,
Just one mud ball in the sea of stars.
Other planets have no color-bars,
"Cause they've got perspective.
Yanks and Ruskies put men into space,
But it's all a mad politician's race,
One-up-manship in this Year of Grace.
It makes you giggle.
The population stands and stares,
While men in capsules explore upstairs.
Why we can't even manage our own affairs!
Some cheek—colonization!
Besides, they've got people on Venus and Mars.
They got lads and lasses and ma's and pa's.
And they've got better transport than four-wheel cars.
Have you ever seen 'em?
Those Flying Saucers whisking through our skies
Must take some power to make them rise.
But government departments just hide their eyes,
And call them meteors!
With all the lies that they print and shout,
The general public's got its work cut out—
Figuring what it's all about.
But just you keep on trying.
I suppose you know why I'mtelling you this,
So you won't shriek or shake your fist
When you discover Martians do exist!
They're real nice fellows.
I know, 'cause I met one a week ago!
His ship came down for an hour or so.
He talked to me, but then he had to go.
Real interested I was!
Got brothers on Venus and Saturn, it seems—
Fly their ships on magnetic beams.

CONVENTION
ri;

12.

13%

14,
15:

16.

Hy

18.
19.
20.

AGE

They wear one piece suits—you can't see any seams;

But apart from that—they're just like us!

SPEAKERS

JOHANNES "HANNO" MAYBERRY;

Unified Research Center, Inc.;

P.O. Box 764; Selma, Oregon 97538.

HOWARD MENGER;

202 Schumann Drive; Sebastian, Florida 32958.
LAURA MUNDO; The Interplanetary Center;

27359 Cranford Lane; Dearborn Heights, Mich.
48127. Publish: ''The Interplanetary News" (Free).
MEL NOEL;

2760 Hollyridge Drive; Hollywood, Calif. 90028.
SIDNEY PADRICK;

196 Hidden Valley Road; Watsonville, Calif.
CHIEF FRANK B. STANDING HORSE;

AFSCA Unit #9; Rt. 2, Box 194, (27401 Hwy. 74);
Perris, Calif. 92370. Phone: 657-2873.

DR. FRANK E. STRANGES;

International Evangelism Crusades, Inc.;

P.O. Box 252; Venice, Calif. 90293.

MOLLIE THOMPSON;

Linton, Astley Bank, Darwen, Lancs., England.
HOPE TROXELL; School of Thought;
P.O. Box 458; Independence, Calif.
GEORGE W. VAN TASSEL;

Ministry of Universal Wisdom, Inc.;
P,O. Box 458; Yucca Valley, Calif. 92284.
Publish: ''Proceedings'' (Donation basis).

93526.

- HAL WILCOX;

Institute of Parapsychology;
871 Gower St.; Hollywood, Calif.
Phone: 469-5438.

90038.

SONGS by Mollie Thompson

SPACE-TALK

The powers that be will tell us we're alone.
They'll tell us that in space we are unique;
On this little desert island we call Earth
The human race is just a kind of freak.
When we send our envoys into space
There'll be a smile upon this planet's face,
'Cause brother, right out there—I'm telling you,
There's another human race; it's very true!
They're a very, very peaceful crowd,
For they just never go to war.
And they cannot interfere,
This is by Universal Law.
The spaceman's message to us all
Is based on how to banish fear,
And if we only understand,
We will find it heaven here.
While we must rely on war,
We never will be happy here.
While this world's economy
Is based on hardship, strife and fear.
How do they live without a war
In their lands of milk and honey ?
They don't need economy,
Because they don't use any money!
They cannot give us any ships,
So we must try and build our own.
But they are waiting right out there,
Oh, my friends, we're not alone!
How do they go at such great speed,
And vanish then without prediction?
Because they use free energy,
And there isn't’any friction.
Brother have you seen their ships ?
Sisters have you seen them glow,
As they dance and hover in the sky,
And make our fastest jets look slow?

Citizen-News|{
Thursday, April 7, you |

Would You Believe—‘Saucer’ Visits Wichita?

Also, sand had swirled into the drive-
way ares.

‘Object In |
Sky Near
Johnny said he was net anxioes to
repeat his sighting experience, But, he

‘ Bloom’dale
hoped if they ever came back ‘and ‘Walen Py bo

if somebody was in one that they '
Latest ‘Flying

would be friendly
Sancer’ Report

—
BLOOMINGDALE—Two) |
Bloomingdale youths reported’ |
last night te Van Buren county |
sheriff's deputies the sighting of
an unidentified flying ob;
north of this village,
Doug Dickerson, 17, and
James Melvin, also 17, said
they were going north on the
Bloom {ngdale-Allegan road
about 9 p.m. In the vicinity of
| the Bill Petrick farm, three and
one-half miles north of Bloom-
ingdale, Dickerson told Melvin,
who was driving, to stop the
car.

‘The boys sald they observed
an object off to their right over
& swamp, hovering in the
They estimated the distance ai
from 109 to 200 yard from the
road, and the height of the
ft | abject fram 50 100 yards.
*| They sald the object was
about the length of a car with «
{flat bottom amd a rounded top
}such as a football cut in half.

did point out something unusual. Along
the driveway lay pieces of concrete that
once served as a reinforcement sheet
along the house's foundation

Mrs. Thomas said she never noticed
Mt breaking off until Friday. Pieces were
Scattered into the driveway

He said his mother said it might be the
Force “playing a trick.”
None of the neighbors reported any-
thing unusual when told of the saucers
landing, and the police dispatcher said
they had had no reports
HOWEVER, JOHNNY and his mother

When it started leaving I covered up
my head.” a

WHEN CONTACTED at the home,
Mrs. Thomas said that about 5 a.m. Fri-
day Johnny came running up to her
room nearly hysterical.

“He was crying that he had seen two
flying saucers,” she recalled.

Ironically, Mrs. Thomas said after-
wards, she had been dreaming of flying
saucers and possibly heard the bum-
ming noise herself

She said Johnny had told her that at
first be thought a big diesel truck was
palling into the driveway, but then the
humming noise started. *

Johnny said he didn't know about the
saucer activity in Michigan last Sund:
until after be told a neighbor about his
nighttime vision. The Michigan report
was attributed to swamp gases by an
Air Force investigator,

JOUNNY SAID HIS saucers landed
on a driveway on the north side of the
house—nowhere near a swamp.

Johany evidently had spent a fitful
night because of an earache that kept
him out of school Friday

When asked if he could have been
having a bad dream, Johnny replied
am pretty sure I was awake because
1 had just fed my pet rat. R hed It
babies. I got back into bed, but 1 didn’t
even have time to cover up before I
saw them

The boy estimated that each saucer
stayed about five minutes, and his story
did ot vary with each repeated telling,

By FRAN KENTLING
Beacen Staff Writer

An L-yearcld Wichita boy has joined
the ranks of those across the nation who
have reported seeing “flying saucers”
during the past week.

Johnny Sparks said that early Friday
morning he saw two ‘flying saucers”
that made a humming noise and were
bigger than cars. He is the son of Mr
and Mrs, Calvin Coolidge Thomas, 916
N. Topeka.

Here is the story the way he told i

“Thad been upstairs to my mother’s
room and then I heard this funay noise

“MK went mmmmmmm—like a flying
top. 1 started to go back to bed when
I heard it, Then I looked out the window
and I saw it

"I saw this flying object that people
have been talking about. It had colored
Lights and was spinning.

“ft was bigger than a car and the
colors were purple and red and orange
and grees

“WHEN I SAW THEM at first, was
up in the sky. Then I saw them laying
right by my window

Tt didn’t look like it had any windows
and it landed like an airplane, When it
started landing it had legs and put them
06 the ground

The top part spun, but the rest di
It was like a big fat doughnut, The top
had something like @ cap that kept going
round and round.

“The second one looked jast lke the
first one. One came down and the other
ame up. The other one just sat and
span, too.

1 was too scared to wake anyone up

UFO Sighting Reported Here

Not a Star -- Not an Aircraft, Says |

Planet Pluto

Saucers Seen, |
Talked With?

By AUSTIN CONOVER

SUNSET STRIP—The invitation to the press read.
“Several persons who have been contacted by messen-
gers from outer space will be available Wednesday for
interviews at 9000 Sunset Blvd." The “several” at the
headquarters of World Harmony, Inc., turned out to be
six, led by Estelle C. Prins, president, who said she
has not only sighted flying saucers but also communi-
caied with the “humans” {o-

side them.

sais The Wichita Beacon |
Saturday, March 26, 1966

She made it clear at the out
}oet that UFO (unidentified tly
}ing object) is not the right way
|to refer to the objects she has
sighted “because they are 50
longer unidentified

Bring Warning
“We know these are from out-|
er space,” she said with « nod
trom the other five sighters.|
"We know that they come to
warn us against the spread of
|the contagion of war to outer
| space
“Like the star that guided the
|wise men at the time of the
birth of Jesus, flying sawcers
are trying to guide mankind to-
ward wntversal peace and har
|mony.’*
| Miss Prins said that space
people have communicated with
her in the English language
"though a bit haltingly” and that
one such communication was
with people from the planet
Piuso,

She parted with the informa-

|tion that the flyig saucer peo-
|ple travel im gigantic saucers as

They described the lights as
being ome red light om each end
of the object, which kept biink-
ing off and on, and one yellow
Hight Im the center of the object
which remained steady.

They said they observed the
object about one minute, |
|when it suddenly went straight |
}up at terrific speed. They said
| it did not seem to go im any
| direction but up, until they lost
| sight of it .

THOSE SPACE PEOPLE!

MRS. THOMAS ADMITTED she was a
little embarrassed about the sighting.
but she did not dowbt the boy's story

Johnny said be never thought there
was anything like flying saucers “until é
1 saw them.” Concrete reinforcement sheeting was broken, sand swirled

lal! Prete by Maroié Laie
Mrs. Thomas and Johnny examined “flying saucer damage.”

ESTELLE C. PRINS

THE MONTREAL STAR, MONDAY, APRIL. 4, 1966 talks to apace men

Boy Is Burned
By ‘Flying Ship’

Canedign Brews
HAMILTON, Ont. April 4—A 13-yearold Hamilton)

Citizen News|
6-14-66 |

_ Flying Saucers,

flovis S. Smith Family of North Bend |

The Louts S. Smiths, who live) culars

on

teresting 10 minutes or so Thurs:

day
use
to

which they were unable to inden:

| tity
Fly

the CCC road, spent an in.

"It appeared to be traveling
from north te south, Phil seid.
“Sometimes it moved quite rap-
idly and was heading In the gen-

wel direction of Rattlesnake

Phil described it as somewhat
|saucertike in shape (see his

April 7,
1d binoculars and a telescope
watch something in the sky

evening, as they

except as an Unidentified
ing Object,

SAUCER SHAPE, This is » rough sketch by Phil Smith, 15, of the
Unidentified Flying Object watched by Phil, his father and mother,

boy has a curved burn on his hand he claims came from
touching the “antenna” of a soft-glowing “flying ship.”
Charles Cozens claims two! .
strange “ships” landed in a .
field behind the Hamilton
Mountain police station on|
Upper Wellington Street Tues
day night
Constable Arnotd Pead, sum-|
moned to the home after the|
parents repeatedly questboned

| Quakes Linked

Thoughts need not be expressed

By AUSTIN CONOVER
| HOLLYWOOD — There is ain
|efinite correlation

Jearthquakes and sightings of|pencil to

[thought of ene,” also its size,
|Mental Investigations of New/Color and shape, to # receptive
|Dimensions declared today injmind."

|ftying saucers, a spokesman for

between [Necessary to know the word for

mach as 10 miles long and that
|these house as many as 4,00)
smaller savcers for reconnoiter:
ing purposes near Earth, |
In Hollywood Hitis |

Miss Prins reported sighting
flying saucers in the Hollywood
hills-as well as elsewhere. |
Gabriel Green, who said he
has made between &5 and 109

words. For instance, it isn't

communichte the

It was first seen by Phil, 15,| sketch) and of a blue-grayish
@ freshman at Mount Si, about/color in the moonlight. He said
10 p.m. “I was out walking the|the band around the center was|
dog, and the first thing that at-| brilliantly lighted

tracted me were the bright] Mr, Smith agreed on the bril-
lights. I knew it couldn't be a) tiance of the lighting but said
star, Then I realized it was mov-| he w whether the cen:
ing.” tr iuminated by
| Phil ram im the house and! bright lights whether they
| called his parents and his sister,| Were ames whatever they
Diana, 18, & Mount Si senlor.| Were they were very bright and
They sli ran outside and all re.| seemed to radiate from that area
port sighting the strange object.|on the object,” be said

Phil used a telescope (30| He was reluctant to guess how
power) on @ tripod and said he | fer away it was. “I had some
had a fairly, good view of it, His|Dilot training during the war,
father said be unable to see|4nd 1 know how hard it is to
through the telescope: “Every estimate distances but I felt it
time 1 tried it the object would) Was quite a way from us," he
move where : tree raped ms mal alreraft,” Mr, Smith said. | something very strange in the
xisiog.”" But be. Diana, and Mrs.| He agreed that his son's sketch| ‘They had an easy comparison. | friendly skies that Thursday
(Smith took turns with the bino-|of the shape of the object was| While they were watching the ob-| night,

St. Petersburg Times April 26, 1966 |

their son before reporting the
incident, verified the three

inch, yellowish burn mark on |Pranklin Ave, which is thelchat the reason for many of the
the boy's hand jinternational headquarters ‘Of fying saucer sightings taking
Caries said he ran bebind |MIND, reported: “Out researchipisce in swamp lands is be-
a fence after seeing one “ship’ veals net onl 7 ”
Priest sella ay reveals coly a pattern of cause ‘the’ inhabitants of these
x fying saucer sightings alterispace crafts have been inter-
fearthquakes and explosions flested in studying the frequency
junderground nuclear devices|narriers of swamp microbes.”
but also the reason for the im-! As for the future, he pre-|
terest of flying saucer people ‘M/dicted that within less than five
[the shock waves. years man will free himself, of
First. let me point out that!the frequency barrier and enter

at the beginning of March, 1965,/an age of 1 mn .
the Russians detondied the larg:|tunl Schevece melee
est underground nuclear explo-| tow
jsion ever. Since this detonation, |
there's been a rash of earth : Maria Graciette Eltiott, ac
quakes, They've eccurred in tress ond ‘patbar,. deeuriaed tn
Turkey, China, Formosa, Japan, © |detnil the flying saucer fireball]
|Spain, Africa, Yogoslavia and 1 with a sulfur smell” that she:
|esela as well as in the United |sighted in Georgia. Liltian Wit

Jers, executive director of Har-

Quotes Scripture 7 t

“During this same period, mony House, cited her tnterest

|there have been many flying [cle bengpannedy die Bat

and his sister for about 10 minutes the evening of April 7. The
band in the center (resembling windows) gave out the bright
lights which first attracted Phil's attention,

an exclusive interview.

Age of Achievement
Wesley H. Bateman: of 49i6

> ” | |such sightings since 1956, scored
Bateman ‘Wert: on t6 txplain

the Air Force and other invest!
gators who have looked into the
matier. “They are nothing more
than official debunkers,” be
jsaid. “They are trying to hide
from our citizens the fact there
are extraterrestrial people.

“Fortunately, the younger
femeration it not $0 inclined to
debunk flying saucers, The re
sponse I've received at the Teen’
Fair shows me youth is far
abead of most adults on this
matter.”

Quest for Trath

reasonably accurate. |Ject, am airplane flew overhead.

“There were times when it ap- All agreed that the object they
peared to be moving in # straight were watching was much larger.
line and then you couldn't see! They watchcJ until the object
much shape, just the band of moved out of range. They were
lights. But new and then it would| not alarmed, only interested.
move rapidty to the left, then | They said they had heard no re
just as swiftly fo the right and ports to indicate that any of their
seem te tilt @ little which al- neighbors shared the experience.
lowed vs to see its general) Both Mr, and Mrs. Smith sald
shape,” he explained. they had been somewhat skepti-

All the Smiths are sure it was|cal of the many reports of the
not a heavenly body, nor an air-| sighting of such objects. No
plane | more — they don't know what it

hw much bigger than nor-| w bet they know they saw

He deseribed the objects as
“eight feet long, four feet wide

id three feet high with red,

jae and green lights set into
the rim and fickering like a
computer.”

The boy said the objects
made s buzzing sound and "tt saa
up the grass around RLES COZENS

Only one bad an antenna, he tic and could not be shaken.
said. “It was thicker at the) Last Wednesday Laverne
base and narrowed (o the site|Emery, 18, and bis brother
ef a nickle at the top Owen, 14, reported seeing two

When he touched tthe anten-| objects flying low over the city,
na, a flash “of electricity” ec-| Mr. Emery, an engineer, said)
curred, and he received a shoek, his sons were “extremely shaken

His father, James Covens, a|up by what they had seen.”
Graughtsenan, said he explained) They said the objects made “a
the seriousness of calling the|whirring noise, not at all like
police “but Charles was empba-lan aireraft.”

or

jong ramee quest for truth.” |

‘Mysterious UFO’
Escorts Burns Plane

kk *
Meteorite
Flares Over
Northeast

PI) — A fam-|
ing object — apparently a mete.

— swept across the East
Coast sky shortly after dark last
night
calls to police, fire stations and
news agencies reporting every

thing from a plane about to
crash to “flying saucers

A spokesman for the Foderal
Aviation Ageney at Kennedy In
ternational Airport said it ap-
peared the object was a meteor
moving from south to north, It
was believed to have landed in|
Long Island Sound.

THE SPOKESMAN said the
tower at Washington alrport re
ported seeing the object dash
across the heavens.

t also was re

Boston airport,

aircraft had radioed

seeing the object aweeping high
through the air

One pilot said it was a fireball
with a Jong vapor trail, The
FAA said a vapor trail was tn
usual, but apparently was the!
result of the object getting into
the earth's lower atmosphere

A spokesman for the Air
Force at Stewart Air Force
Base, Newburgh, N.Y. con
firmed that It was a meteorite
breaking up and burning itself
out

DR. ASHER CHAPMAN, an
examiner for the FAA said he
rushed to the window of his
home in Glen Cove, N.Y. to see
the object traveling “about 1,000
feet above ground, 309 to 400
miles an hour, from sevth to
north, He sald be at first
thought the flaming object was
an airplane, as did many oth
ers. But, he added, the objec
did not dive, but continued in a
horizontal plane

The object was sighted for)
about five to 10 seconds, most
Teports indicated.

NEW YORK (

touching off thousands of |

|
Times Staff Writer |

ABOARD THE BURNS CON
VAIR — It's been a Jong potiti
cal campaign bet last night
Gov. Haydon Burns, four cynt
cal newspapermen, Mrs. Burns
land six Bures staff members
saw two spots of light that
looked suspiciously 1p an wr)
identified flying object escorting
he Burns campaign plane for
labout #0 miles over Central Flor-|
ida

The object was first spotted
|by co-pilot Herb Bates. He said]
jhe saw the object “when we
jtook off from Orlando. Bates
added ayed with us for at
least 40 miles, then it disap
peared, like he turned off the
juice, It's the first one P've seen
in 2 years of flying.

Bates reported the sighting to|
Capt. Nathan Sharon of the!
Fiorida Highway Patrol, Sharon
went to the cockpit and ob-
served the object and went back|
to tell Gov Burns. Burns
|looked out the window and then
jcame back and told newsmen.
|"there’s a UFO out there.

Newsmen and staff members
looked out the window of the
plane nd spotted what ap
peared to be two round spots of
light, At the time the plane wi
on & northwest course from
Orlando to Tallahassee,

THE LIGHTS were off to the!
lnortheast of the plane and ap-|
|peared to be traveling along at
about the same speed. The pilot]
|sayx the plane was flying at]
about 6,000 feet and at abut 230
mies an hour. Everyone aboard
the plane watched the lights for
several minutes and Burns or
|dered the pilot to turn toward
the object. |

At that point the lights ap||
peared to rise and then disap-
|peared as though the electricity! |
|had been switched off, Every:
Jone aboard the plane lost sight]
Jof the object at the same mo-
|ment. During the time the|
lobject was visible Pilot Fred
Scharrer was in contact with| |
Miami alr traffic control. He/!
‘said that alr traffic control was
asked if it had anything on the
radar beside: the Burns plane.
‘They reported they did not.

BRILLIANTLY LIGHTED
Police Follow

4-18-66 San Diego Union

Saucer 85 Miles

FREEDOM, Pa. (UPI
Two brilliantly lighted uniden
tifled fying objects were
sighted here and 360 miles
away, at Benton Harbor,
Mich., early yesterday

Police alerted by radio to
be on the lookout for an ob-
ject heading their way fot
lowed the “bright circular”

about 15 stories
had a steeblike shell and was
shaped “something lke a but
dog.” 5

The crew reported watching

the object a over a
motel to pollee, who observed
ay ye higher in the air

in Freedom, Spaur reported
the object, which had = ane
tenna-like protrusion on its
underside, hovered above the
ctuiser in which he and Depu
ty W. L. Neff were riding
OBJECT WAITS

The Ohio deputy sheriffs
were joined by East Palestine
Patrolman Wayne Housten,
who said “when the object got
too far ahead of us it ap
peared to stop and wait

Deputy Robert Wiison, mon
itoring the calis from the
cruiser, sald Spaur and Neff
were questioned by an “Air
Force colonel” in Freedom
However, Air Force head
quarters at Greater Pittsbur
hb Airport said it had no re
port on the UFO.

a distance of ©
Portage County, Ohio, De-
paty Sheriff Dale Spaur, an
Air Force gunner during the
Korean War, said the object
‘about 39 to 45 feet in diame.
ter traveled at speeds from 00
to 100 miles an hour.”

BRIGHT LIGHT

“Thad never seen anything
this bright before in my life,
he said.

In Benton Harbor, three
city rubbish collectors watch
ed a flying object with one
light so bright “you couldn't
look straight at it

Joseph Franklin said it was |

Monday, Mar. 20,1966 = Ge Los Angeles Herald-Erentner

SAUCER BLAST? SIX
TOWNS SEE MYSTERY

NEWTON, N.C., March 28 (UPT)—A glowing blue ob
fect streaked low across parts of western North Caro-
lina about 2 a.m. today and exploded without a sound
over Vaidese.

The exp
bulb

Police officers in 4ix towns in three counties said
they saw light. It was moving from east to west.

Officer Melvin Bariowe of the Newton police depart
ment in Catawba County said it looked like a “big blue
bolt of fire with fire arcing off the edges.” He suid it
made ne sound when it passed

Barlowe estimated its altitude to be 1000 feet. He
could not estimate Its speed,

“We don't have anything around here that could
catch it,” he sald. “No swamp gas or nothing lke that
could move that fast.”

Bartowe said he was alone in his patrol car when
he saw it, but he said Sgt. Donald Burgess patrolling
in another car across town saw it also.

Police officers at Vaidese were filling the tank of
thelr patrol car when they saw the object silently ex

fi pioae ‘They saw no fragments fa

fon lit up the town like a gigantic ‘fash.

in the air, |

‘The Thing’

Sets Britons

Speculating Anew

Hong Kong, 4-11-66}

“The Thing” — or “Things”

London, Apr. 10.
— returned to Britain

today and caused new speculation about a flyi object
which officials have failed so far to explain fully sa

The Sunday newspaper
News of the World — with
a massive circulation of
about 7m — printed pictures
Om Its front page of an object re-
sembling & space craft that it
said was jographed from
an siriiner by & woman passen-
ger with « standard cine camera
and developed tn an ordinary
commercial laboratory,

The woman, Mrs Joan Old~
field, 38, raid she was fying in
@ British United Airways air-
liner in bright, sunny weather at
270 mph at 9,000 feet over Can~
nock in Staffordshire County 15
days ago when she spotted what
she thought was another plane,
& jetliner

She said she whipped out her
camera and aimed.

Tt seemed to hover for three
geconds round our airliner,” ber

“We Couldn't Live in Their Atmosphere’

husband, Tom, told the per.
"Then it pulled in two fins’ at
the top and then two at the
bottom 0 go into a flying saucer
type shape, Then it banked

led sighting—
% vouched for
one of the newspaper's
photographers—coincided with
Tecent fresh reports of uniden-
Ufied fying objects in the Unit-
ed States and new claims that
“The , Thing" that has been
sighted by 421 witnesses in the
village of Warminster over the
past 16 months has been seen
again.

Authorities no longer look
fully askance at the Warmins-
ter sighting reports, and the
Ministry

saucer sightings. The majarity|
have been on or near the 4th
}parailel in the Northern Hemi-|

|sphere.”
Bateman, who believes the!
|presence of flying sawcers it}
beyond question, cited Bible
references to sightings following]
Jearthquakes and said that after|
the @arthquake toppled the!
Colossus of Rhodes in 250 B.C.|
‘shining objects were seen in
|the sky,”*

More recently, the Alaskan|
earthquake of 194 was followed
by a wave of sightings of flying!
objects in New Mexico; ‘and
earthquakes in Spain that year

re followed by reports of fly-
ing saucers in Portugal

The researcher offered this
lexplanation: “Flying saucer
[people are nét so mech com-
cerned about our puclear test-

ng or the destructive power of|

our earthquakes as about the
change in the frequency barrier,
which is produced by our mag-|
netic fheld and which is affected|
by earthquakes and nuclear
‘explosions.

| “This frequency barrier has}
jbampered man’s mental e-|
velopment and his communica-|
jtion with space people, There

are so many space people I
|would dumbfound you if 1 were
I" tell you how many |

“Much of our knowledge bas
lcome to us from these people: |
and we have little realized the
|thought transference. As cur;
|minds develop, we'll be able to
communicate better with them
Language is not the problem.

5 At Pierre
Sight UFO

PIERRE (AP) — Five Pierre |

residents reported they viewed

‘

WESLEY H. BATEMAN
++ earthquakes, saucers

A Second
3-22-66

UFO Seen |
In Michigan

HILLSDALE, Mich. (UPI) —|
A county civil defense director
jand ST co-eds said today they)

itched ‘an eerie, hovering
fying object settle in a)
|swampy hollow near a college!
\dormitory Monday night. |

William van Horn, 41, Hill-|
edale County civil defense!
|director for 10 irs, said he}
|watched the unidentified object
[through binoculars for three|
jhours.
| It was the second straight
ight a lerge umber of!
{witnesses reported seeing weird
unidentified flying objects in
jecuthern Michigan. Sunday
[night a doren policemen and at
[least 40 other persons said they
oe « similar object,

guarded by four sister ships,
land in a swamp about 45 miles
|northeast of here near Ann
JArbor, Mich,

Realtor Spots

an unidentified Qying object high
in the skies over the Capital
city about midnight Tharsday

They said they caught sight of |
A bright light im the sky which
appeared for a time to be a
star in the Big Dipper constelta
tion. Then the hight moved swift.
ly in a sowtherty direction.

‘The lighted object was moving
too fast to be an orbiting satel
te, the observers said, It took
the object about five minutes
to move through an are of 20 to
25 degrees, they said, and then
the light blinked out

‘They said the light appeared
to be at a very high altitude,
moved at tremendous speed and
made po noise that could be
heard from thelr vantage point

Saucer-Like 3-22-66 |

}
Flying Object |

F. Bea of 31 Martyn
street, Bridgeton realtor, report-
ed to Bridgeton police ‘Moexiay
that he saw a saucer-like fying
object ip the sky over Clark's
Pond arta of Fuirton. |

He told Desk Officer Russell
Harris he was putting a sign ba
}front of a property when the
|radio of his car suddenly car
‘out and be louked up and sa
® dirty.gray object in the shape
jof two saucers—one atop the
other—tlending with the sky.

He heard a whine and the ob
ject went out of sight traveling
at high speed and the radio
came on again,

Visible Again
Lights in Sky |
The “thying saucer” which at-|
|tracted attention of residents of
13 communities in three coun-
ties was back again last might
fin Wanaque, according to two!
clifton men.
Peter Hreno, 29 Dawson Ave,
and Dennis Reynicks, 115
Scoles Ave, reported they
parked their car on Westbrook
|Road in order to get a full view
of the vast Wanaque Reservoir.
| About 10:40 last might, they|
said, # bright point of light ap-
peared to be hovering above the
ice, As Reynicks prepared to
photograph it, the light disap-
| peared
| But it returned, with a “red:
|dish tinge, bobbing and weav-|
jing." according to Hreno
Bentley Spencer, Wanaque
jctvil defense director, said he|
suw the light about 6 p.m. Dor-|
jens of cars ringed the reservoir
last night, thelr occupants hop-|
ing to see the “object,” first
| spotted over the reservoir and
in nearby communities Tuesday |
| night and again yesterday more:
ing.
| Official explanations, mean
while, were lacking. The Air
Force dismissed the incidents
as possible sightings of the
planets Venus and Jupiter.

BALL OF FIRE |
IN HOLLYWOOD
‘LIKE SAUCER’

HOLLYWOOD — The
| unidentified flying abject,
| spotted in San Fernando Val-
ley Monday night, also was |
seen bere.

Mrs. Belle Roth, 1042 S.
Holt Ave., told the Citizen |

2 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Monday, December 13, 1965

| New ‘Fireball’ Raises —
|| An Old Question: Do
|| Flying Saucers Exist?

Californian, ‘Who Talks’ to Men
From the Stars, Says ‘Yes’;
Scientists Assail Air Force }

By ELLIOT CARLSON

Staff Reporter of Tas Wat Street JourNnaL
They'se back. The latest was sighted a few)
| nights ago by residents and pilots in the north-|
ern tier of states and Canada. They described
| it as an orange fireball. The Air Force'at tirst |
called it an unidentified flying object, but now
| thinks it was a meteor. Some other people
| called it a flying saucer.

Several people say they saw the firebal] land
Thursday night. An li-year-old boy in Lorain,
| Ohio, says he watched it drop into the woods
| near his home. A woman in Elyria, Ohio, 10)
miles away, claims she saw it plunge into a
} vacant lot across the street from her home.
Others say they saw it streak into Lake Michi-
|| gan. Scientists and police combed a T75-acre
area near Pittsburgh after a woman there saw
the object crash to earth ‘‘smoldering."’

Despite these witnesses and search efforts,
however, the thing has yet to be found. In this
regard, it is like all other unidentified flying
objects, or UFOs, which are mysterious be-
cause they are-seen but never found.

Whatever it turns out to be—meteor, satel-
Hte part, hoax, weather oddity or man from
Mars—it appeared in a banner year Yor. euch |
objects, which almost disappeared from public
consciousness following & rash of. reports of |
flying saucers in the mid-1950s: ‘“‘We've had
more reports this year-than in any year since |
1957, when we had more than a thousand,” says |
a spokesman -for Project Blue Book, the Air
Force program set up in 1948 to evaluate re-
ports of the phenomena. |
Visitors From Outer Space

Nobody knows what the objects are or where | |
they come from, but there is no lack of theories
—or of controversy. The Amalgamated Flying
Saucer Clubs of America, Inc., is sure the
“saucers’’ come from outer space. How do
they know? The “space people” have told
them. ]

Not only that, says Gabriel Green, who/|
heads the California group, ‘‘space people give
contactees information about life on other)
planets and solutions to insurmountable prob-
lems on our planet.” One suggestion allegedly
made to Mr. Green in 1960 by a visit from Al-
pha Centauri, ‘a nearby star: Run for Pres: |
dent as a write-in candidate. (He campaigned |
briefly, then.decided not to run.) |

The National Investigations Committee on
Aerial Phenomena (NICAP), a private re-
search organization in Washington, doesn't
hold with that theory. ‘‘We reject reports of|
noble beings landing on earth to solve all our
problems," says a spokesman. So men from|
Mars are a lot of bunk? Not necessarily, says |
the committee. It believes q Congressional in-
vestigation would prove that UFOs “are real
| physical objects . . . under the control of living

beings." As an afterthought, the ‘spokesman
says: ‘‘There are a tremendous number of ego-
| maniacs who have been able to appoint them-
| selves experts in this field because it's so con-
| fused.”

| One man who's not confused at all is Charles
|.A. Maney, professor emeritus of physics and
| mathematics at Defiance, College in Ohio. Says
the professor: ‘These objects are unquestion-
| ably from outer space.’ He bases his reason-
| ing on the fact that the objects often interfere |
| with local electrical circuits, indicating to him
| they have ‘‘a means of propulsion associated
] fovdeg magnetic fields.""

“There’s Nothing To It’

Such notions are scoffed at by astronomers,
however. ‘All this is imagination outside the
| Tealm of science,"’ says Donald H. Menzel, di-
rector of the observatory at Harvard. “TI have
examined Air Force cases and discovered ‘that
UFOs all have simple explanations in terms
of well-known natural phenomena. There’s not
one cause, but hundreds. Some are quite spec- |
tacular, such as reflections from ice crystals or |
bright stars, searchlights on clouds or high-
flying spider webs. But to some people the exis-
tence of flying saucers is a matter of religious
fanaticism,"’ he says.

But Mr. Menzel reads more into the Air
Force data than does the Air Force itself. Of
the 9,786 UFO reports made to the Air Force
since 1947, 673 remain claSsified as \‘‘unidenti-
fied," a spokesman says. He defines this cate-|
gory as containing sightings whose pertinent |
data can't be correlated with any known object
or phenomena.

{

| the sightings were made.

The spokesman quickly adds: ‘‘We have nei-

| ther received nor discovered any evidence that

proves the existence of intraspace mobility or
| extraterrestrial life and we continue to extend |
an open invitation to anyone who feels he pos- |
sesses any evidence of such vehicles operating
in our atmosphere."’ And he states: ‘No UFO
report evaluated by the Air Force has ever
given any indication of a threat to our national
security.’’

The Air Force's approach disturbs some
people, however. ‘“‘The Air Force should admit}
there are natural phenomena taking place un-|
der our noses of which we know nothing,"’ says
I, M. Levitt, director of Fels Planetarium at the
Franklin Institute in Philadelphia. He adds:!
“The Air Force is trying to explain something
that isn't susceptible to explanation.”

Robert Risser, director of the Oklahoma Sci-
ence and Art Foundation planetarium at Okla-
homa City, believes “the Air Force must have
had its star-finder upside down during Aug-
ust,"’ when. several reports of flying saucers
were ascribed by the Air Force to sightings of
stars. ‘The constellations of Taurus and Orion
weren't yisible at the time the Air Force said
I think they made an

error.”

The whole problem, says J. Allen Hyntek,
chairman of the department of astronomy at
Northwestern University and a consultant to
the Air Force, is that the matter should be}
studied more thoroughly.

“Pressures to conformity in academic cir-
cles and fear of ridicule have slowed the|
study,"’ according to Robert Hall, a sociology
professor at the University of Illinois in Chi-
cago.

“The possibility of life on Mars is an un-
popular thing to consider these days," says|
Frank B. Salisbury, a professor of plant phy-}
siology at Colorado State University. At the
risk of being unpopular, Mr. Salisbury told the
fifth annual Space Conference this year that|
“there may be some natural explanation of |
these things, but a tentative possibility to be
considered is that UFOs are spaceships from
Mars."

Fueling the flying-saucger controversy has|
been the large number of reports from what
many people consider reliable witnesses—pilots
with technical backgrounds. Since 1947, more/
than 100 private, military and commercial pilots |
have reported spotting strange objects in the |
sky, according to one study.

Pinning down such reports is difficult, how-
ever. “Some of the boys did report things they
couldn't identify a few years ago,"’ says a
spokesman for American Airlines. “But our
pilots haven't made a report for years."

Nevertheless, ‘we have on file a great num-
ber of reports from pilots who don't want their
names used but still want to tell somebody
what they’ve seen, claims J, B. Hartanft, Jr.,
president of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots As-
sociation, And he says: ‘I haven't drawn any

conclusions myself, but I think we've certainly
got.a. good mystery on our hands.’’

4-18-66

|, This

London,

Ontario Free Press 3-26-66

100 Watch UFO
Disc-Like Object Hovers,. Rises
For Two Hours East of Kettle Point

By JIM ETHERINGTON
Free Press Sarnia Bureau

SARNIA — A revolving ob-
ject, sighted in the sky east
of Kettle Point last night, was
watched for more than two
hours by about 100 persons.

Lawrence Bressette, who op-
rates a store on the Kettle
Point Indian Reserve, said a
motorist brought the object-to
his attention about 8 p.m. He
said he looked at it through
binoculars and could see red,
blue, green and white lights
flashing from the disc-shaped
object.

Mr. Bressette said it re-
mained motionless for about
an hour flashing lights, then
slowly began to rise. Cloud
cover rolled in about 10 p.m.,
allowing only periodic sight-
ings.

“T've never seen anything
like this,” he said. “We all
saw it. It was low — about 200
or 300 feet off the ground to
the east. Then it slowly began
to move up.”

Mr. Bressette said it could
not have been swamp gas
which was suggested was the
eause of unidentified ‘flying
object sightings in the Detroit
ayea last week.

“T've seen swamp gas lights.
was not the same,” he
said. “Besides there hasn't
been any swamp gas lights
around here since before the
war.” ‘

\Mr. Bressette said his breth-
er, Jeffery, also reported see-
ing an object over Sarnia. This
one stayed stationary for a
short time then shot across
the aky at a very high speed.

An officer in control opera-
tions at Selfridge Air Force
Base, Mount Clemens, Mich.,
said the Canadian sighting
was the fourth reported to
him last night. The other
three were from the Detroit
area,

He said no radar reports
had been obtained on any of
the sightings.

Mr. .Bressette reported jet
planes in the area at one
point while the graup watched
along the Lake Huron shore.
But there was no possibility
the object he saw was a jet.

In Michigan new reports of

‘Report Them. .. Forget lti—

I Have Enough Credibility Problems As It Is’

UFO sightings were received
Saturday night as far north
as the tip of the “Thumb” in
Lake Huron.

Odd lights were reported in
the sky over Oakland County
and the neighboring Detroit
area. Others were reported
westward in the Lansing area.

Dr. J. Allen Hynek of North-
western University, scientific
consultant to the U.S. Air
Forte said phenomena seen
at Dexter and Hillsdale on the
night of March 20 probably
were the result of | swamp
gases,

Sheriff Douglas Harvey of
Washtenaw County and civil
defence director William Van
Horn of Hillsdale County criti-
eized Dr. Hynek’s report.
Van Horn said the swamp gas
explanation was an attempt
to “explain it away arbitrar-

Flying Saucers
Gain Proponent

N.Y. Daity News Dispotch

NEW YORK — The nephew of
the late Dag Hammarskjold
has startled America’s top
science writers by telling them
he believes ,that’ flying saucers
exist and that they come from
outer space.

Knut Hammarskjold, whose
late uncle was secretary gener-
al of the United Nations, spoke
to a convention here of the avi-

ation-space writers associa-
tion.

Hammarskjold also suggested
that our space neighbors are
secoming more and more inter-
ested in what people are doing
on earth.

“The possible existence of
veighbors in space will, if con-
firmed, create problems of le-
zal, political and
‘characteristics,” he said.

technical bx

Hong Kong China Mail

Flying
saucers
myste

-3-66

EOPLE in North Queens-

land are mystified by
three separate reports of
Flying Saucers.

ere first report came from a
ear-old banana grower, Mr

2 Pediey. who while driving a
mae through a neighbouring
property on his way to his own
farm, heard a loud hissing noise
above the noise of the tractor.

Suddenly about 25 yards
ahead of him, a blue-grey saucer
shaped craft about 25 ft across,
and 9ft high, rose vertically to
about 60ft and travelling at a
terrific speed headed off in a
pouth-westerly direction.

On investigation, a nest
of flattened reeds was found,
the circle being about 30ft
in diameter and since then
four other nests have been
found close by, some of them
newly made,  —

During the last eight months,
no_less than seven different
sightings of Flying Saucers have
been reported in the North
Queensland press.

Hundreds. of sightseers have
flocked to the Horseshoe Lagoon
in the Tully District during the
last few days to view the circles
which are partly hidden by
dense scrub.

The RAAF has taken the

fiying saucer sightings from
the area will be investigated.

1966
A-11

Los Angeles F Riaz sitine!

| UN Watch For Saucers Urged

UNITED NATIONS, N.Y.,
Feb. 7 (AP)—Colman Von-
keviczky, an employe in the
U.N. Office of Public Infor-
mation, proposed to Secre-
tary-General U Thant today
that members of the United

| Nations establish a network
to observe flying saucers.

Vonkeviczky, who | says

er space is sending flying
saucers regularly on test
flights to earth,

He told Thant only the
United Nations could be ex-
pected to have sufficient
authority to establish con-
tact or represent mankind
in a_ face-to-face meeting
with extraterrestrial
tors.

| he believes someone in out-

STRANGE

OBJECT

— OVER MT. WILSON,

A-2 {0s Angeles Herald-Examiner

There was something over
| Mount Wilson early today but
hit didn’t catch the entire city
) napping.

Police and newspaper
switchboards were flooded
with calls describing the
object variously as a “puff,”
a “greenish ball,” a “flat
oval green object with a
long tail and a light at the
end.”

It was first sighted about
4 am. and remained in view
for about half an hour.

A ‘similar fireball was
sighted about the same
time from Sacramento and
from Vanderberg Air Force
Base, it was reported.

Vandenberg reported no
launches during the
preceding 24 hours which
might account for the phe-
nomenon and said radar

Lai aaa up _ ai
al activity” during the peri-
od.

An Air Force spokesman
at Vandenberg said the Air
Force's “Project Blue
Book” office in Washington
was investigating.

An. observer at Mather
Air Force Base near Sacra-
mentotheorized that the ob-
ject may have been gas res"
idue left from Nevada
missile firings which re-
flected light.

Sgt. David Tellotson, of
Hollywood division, sald the
object here appeared to be
over Griffith Park. “It was a
bright green splotch, elon-
gated, and not blinking,” he
said.

The only solid fact emerg-
ing: A lot of people.are up at)
4 am.

———— ———_

visi- |

}

Head Saucerer Believes
Martians Are Watching Us

Who's in All
Those Saucers?

By Harold Scarlett

Was Jesus Christ a Martian?

“It's hard to say,” said Gabriel
Green thoughtfully. Then he added
that it certainly seems plausible.

It's no trick at all to walk on water
or ascend to the heavens if you have a
Martian levitation belt around your
waist and an anti-gravity beam to
ride, Green explained.

Furthermore, he said, the Martians
now visiting earth on fying saucers
are trying to save earth's people
from their own follies — just as the
Savior was.

Green can speak with some au-
thority on these mafters because, he
says, he met and talked with a Martian
once. Also a four-foot man from the
Alpha Centauri star system. Also some
other unearthly visitors.

SOMETIMES, HE said, he met these
flying saucer crewmen by telepathic,
appointments. These were arranged
through associates of his with tele-
pathic talents.

“And once in a while,” he said, “they
would just call on the phone.”

Green, who lives in Los Angeles, is
the head saucerer — the president -
of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer
Clubs of America.

Not being too telepathic, we just
called Green on the phone to Interview
him about the recent rash of flying
saucer sightings around the country.

“It is a continuation of their efforts
to enlighten us,” Green replied in calm
and cultured tones.

“The current series of sightings and
landings, I understand, will increase.
They are not going to go away, as
some members of our government
would like.”

WHY DO THEY keep buzzing down
here and scaring people?

“What with nuclear proliferation
growing, it seems rather obvious that
unless we start resolving the present
problems facing mankind, we will
destroy ourselves and perhaps some of
the universe along with us,” Green ex-
plained.

“This is one of the primary reasons
why the extra-terrestrials started mak-
ing visitations in 1947, shortly after we
developed this ability — to watch over
us and if possible to impart their ad-
vanced scientific, technological and
sociological knowledge to help us re-

solve these problems before we destroy
ourselves.”

Green said he is trying to do his
humble best to help them spread that
message.

“The solutions they have given,” he
said, “dea) primarily with resolving the
motives for wars, expansionism and
poverty. They hope to eliminate the
have-not nations . . . through superior
financing. They have an advanced eco-
nomic system they call Universal
Economics. The economics part of it is
what I personally am trying to trans-
mit.”

HE SAID RUEFULLY, however,
that the saucer clubs themselves are in
an economic pinch that has prevented
needed research.

Green said he runs the saucer clubs
out of his own home, at 2004 North
Hoover in Los Angeles, “to cut down
on the overhead.” He said there are
clubs in 50 major U.S. cities and
abroad, with a total of about 3,500
members. Houston has no club, he said,
but he does have some interested Hous-
tonians on his mailing list.

“We are a contact-oriented research
group,” he said, “meaning that many
of our members have made actual

at on

4-12-66

“Parkin;

From B. C., the Post, May 9, 1966

physical contact with crews of these
craft.”

Green said he has sighted 85 to 100
spacecraft around Los Angeles over
the years and has met “half a dozen
or so members of the crews.”

BUT GREEN BELITTLED his own
experiences.

“They're so insignificant it's hardly
worth talking about them,” he said.
“Some of our members have actually
been taken for rides in spacecraft.

“I certainly wouldn't turn down a
ride if it were offered me. But they've
never asked me.”

Green said he met the Martian by
appointment at a friend’s home, and he
looked “just like anybody you'd meet
on the street.” He was casually
dressed, Green said, and wore a short-
sleeve, shimmery, metallic-looking
shirt which he said would stop bullets.

All in all, a handsome chap, Green
said.

“I felt his hair and it was quite
coarse and worn in a V-shape down to-
ward the center of the forehead,”
Green said. “But I rather doubt all
Martians wear their hair alike, any
more than we do.

“HE SAID THE MARTIAN canals

SAUCER OR STRAW HAT, THIS FLEW IN CALIFORNIA LAST AUG
Highway Patrolman Rej Heflin Photographed It Through His Car Windshield

PAGE 41—SPOTLIGHT

THE PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER,

SUNDAY, MAY

MONDAY MORNING. APRIL 18, 1966

between my ball and the green—I'd hard:
call THAT intelligent life from another planet.” .
©

LArtoon by Fisenaew

were really canals for distributing the
short water supply from their polar
regions, and that the two Martian
moons are really artificial satellites
just like the Russian astronomers have
supposed.”

Green said he had met the Alpha
Centauri man several times — once in
the Green home.

“He was dressed ordinarily and was
about four feet tail, although this was
unusual. Most of the reports of them
are that they are normal height or
larger,” Green said.

“There was that space ship that
landed near Albuquerque, for instance,
with a crew of four men and five wom-
en. They were very beautiful, very well
proportioned. Seven to nine feet tall.”

Green said he had met other inter-
stellar travelers but would “rather not
go into the whole list.”

Where did they park their space
ships while they were visiting him?

“OH, SOMETIMES they actually
park them hang them up in the sky
with a force field around them. Then
they have an anti-gravity beam and
levitation belts they wear around the
waist to get on down to earth.

“Through these, they can accom-
plish such miracles as walking on
water and ascending into the heavens.”

Green said he is 41 and was a
photographer with the Los Angeles
Board of Education until he resigned
in 1959 to try to help the spacemen
save civilization.

Green said naturally he asked to
take the spacemen’s picture, but they
refused and he abided by their wishes.

“An associate of mine once tried to
sneak a couple of flash pictures,” he
said, “but two times the flash gun
wouldn’t fire, even though the camera
was in perfect working condition.

“THAT DEMONSTRATES the pow-
ers of the mind of these people. Just

15, 1966, THE HOUSTON POST

UFO Plays Tag With Deputies in 85-Mile Chase

RAVENNA, O., April 17 (UPI).|Portage county sheriff's head-jlight so bright he couldn't look

—Two Portage county sheriff's\quarters here.

deputies followed a “bright elr-| “I had never seen anything
cular” unidentified object Sun-jthis bright before in my life,”
day from Atwater, O., to Free-/he told Deputy Robert

drom, Pa., a distance of 85 miles.|via the radio.

routine traffic accident at $ A.M.|bright

directly at it.

Vilson| viewed the object,

The two deputies were joined

Deputies Dale Spaur and W./ In Benton Harbor, Mich., alin the chase at East Palestine,
L. Netf were investigating alfiying object degetibed as so|U., just across
“you couldn't

lookifrom Pennsylvania, by

Franklin and his crew report
ed the sighting to police who also

State line
East

reported the object, which had
something like an antenna pro-
truding from the bottom, hover-
ed above the cruiser in which
Spaur and Neff were riding.
Wilson said that Spaur and
Neff were questioned by an “Air
Force colonel” in Freedom.
(Air Force headquarters at

Wilson said the object “was
caught by radar” in Pittsburgh.
He said that at least seven jets
from the Cleveland-area headed
for the object after it was re-
perted.

(The control tower at Greater
Pittsburgh Airport said it spot
ted no UFOs on its radar

when they were alerted by/straight at it” was sighted early|Palestine Patrolman
radio to be on the lookout for|Sunday near the downtown sec-/ Huston.
an object heading their way. tion of the city. Huston said the object appear-
Spaur, an Air Force gunner| Three rubbish collectors saided larger than an airliner and
during the Korean War, said the|they gaw the object hover over|t aveled in a straight line, He
circular object “about 30 to 45\a motel along the St. Josephisaid it would change altitude
feet in diameter traveled at|River. The head of the crew,| suddenly.
speeds from 80 to 100 miles an|Joseph Freeklin, said it was| “It was a funny thing,” Hus
dour.” . jabout 15 storits.in the air, had|ton said, “but when the object
“It was about 1000 feet inja steel-like shell “and locked got too far ahead of us it ap-
the air and was extremely|“‘something like a hot..dog" injpeared to stop and wait.”
bright,” Spaur radioed to the\shape. He said it had a brilliant! Wilson said at one time Spaur

AB Los dageles Weraidtxamone =e Tuesday, May 1, 1966 i

Wayne

Greater Pittsburgh Airport said sree.)
it had no report on the UFO.)

“The chase lasted about 53)
minutes and, in that time, the) +
object was reported seen by at
least six or seven other depart-
ments, both in Obio and Penn-
sylvania,” Wilson said.

Neff, a onetime Seabee,
agreed with Spaur in the de
seription of the object and add-
eq that jt “had no wings.”

Mysterious Sky Objects Have Texans in Dither

MEMPHIS, Tex, May
(AP) — Rural residents toldjpeared to be tin and alumi/4:10 p.m.
of seeing a cigarshaped ob-|num. Duncan and several
SS the sky yes} David Duncan, 24, with Re/ friends tried to pursue the
terday, and two men said tigio station KGBH in Mem. Sbiect, “comeshaped and
caught fire and burned with- phis, related these cous} silver looking,” im a car
out apparent cause. and i appeared to halt

Still another farmer In the) Mrs. Ernest Lee, whose! near the Salisbury commu-
same vicinity reported he/home is 3 miles southeast of| nity 5 miles south of Mem-
heard an explosion, watched/here. Spotted something] phis. As they drew near,
another unidentified fiying)which looked “like two para/ however, it swept away at
object fall and picked up ajchutes™ hovering in the air) high speed.

M\fourfeot strip of what ap,;about 2% miles distant at;

J. W. Hatley, a farmer in,
ithe

, “It was big enough to
Brice community 21) carry a man, and I got the

miles west of here, and three) feeling that it did,” Hatfield

other men told of watching) recounted.
minutes later as something)
“about 20 feet long. 4 to
|feet wide and shaped like a

\cigar” plunger to earth. thorities

Hatley and one of his com.
panions went to notify au
leaving two other

™& bore no markings, they/men on guard. The strange
\sald, and “appeared to havelobdject started smoking, burst

radios and about 20 smailiinto flame and burned, Hat-|

batteries on the outside.”

ley _Teported

GABRIEL GREEN
Head Saucerer
like Uncle Martin Favorite
Martian.’ ”

Green said he had never seen one
of the unearthlings beside his space
ship. Then how could he be sure they
weren't a hoax practical - joking
earthlings just putting him on?

“Oh, I wouldn't believe just anyone
who walked up to me and said he was
from Mars,” Green replied

“But if you get a call from the White
House and were told President Eisen-
hower would meet you a certain
time on the corner of Hollywood and
Vine, and you went there, and a man
there who looked like the President
called you by name, wouldn't you be-
lieve he was Eisenhower?”

on

"My

n said he once asked a spaceling
to prove himself by disappearing.
“BUT HE REFUSED and told me to
walk away,” Green said. “He was on a
balcony five floors high, and I waiked
down a hallway for three or four sec-
ond and turned and looked back
he was There
place for him to go from that
Green believes the spacemen are un-
doubtedly friendly, just as t
to be, or otherwise th
destroyed the earth long
“They say

us but our friendship,” he said. “They
would never destroy us. This would be
a violation of their code of life. They
revere all living things.”

Apparently they do
though.

“There was one decision that if any
nation on earth fires a nuclear war-
head, it will fall back on the people
who fired it," Green said. “I don’t know
what their latest decision has been."

HE EXPLAINED that he hasn't been
in contact with a spaceman for two or
three years now.

Green said people from many planets
are visiting earth, and that accounts
for the wide variety of flying Saucers
being sighted

One of his favorites is the Venusian
scout ship. That's the one about 50 feet
in diameter with the three protruding
semi-spheres on the bottom and the
portholes around the cabin.

Green said it is operational only
within 5,000 to 10,000 miles of a
planet's surface. He said it comes down
from a cigar-shaped mother ship that

s up there. The mother ship can
terplanetary trips.

s point we decided t
intervie The long-distance line to
Angeles had begun makifg an eerie
wheeee and then an ominous blup
blup-blup.

Maybe
ing in.

and
gone. was no k

baicony

profess
could have
ago

y want nothing from

have lapses.

end the

the Martians were listen

3-25-66

“It's flying-+aucer-sighting time and I'm determined to ste one!”

Saucer

‘Sighting

| Report

MARCH 30, 194

Five sightings were re-
ported on Monday of unidenti-
fled flying objects, observed
in the sky in the northwest
Detroit area,

Northwest Precinct police
station had three reports,
Schaefer one, and Palmer
Park, one.

On Monday, 7:20 p.m., sev-
enteen year old Mike Woods,
8418 Fuast, states that he saw
a very high object with white
lights hearding north from
the southwest, in the Faust-
Van Buren Avenue area,

Eddie Crunk, 17, 19749

nview and his companion,

rt Spalineo, 15, 19743
Greenview, observedan object
over Crunk’s home at about
8:20 p.m, Crunk said that
the UFQ camie from the west,
{far a moment and then

was jast sten Gollig east, witn
lights changing from the color
red to green and then amber,

At 9:30 p.m., sixteen-yeare
ok Mi Senia, 12610
Virgil saw ething with a
white light traveling very fast
near Virgil and Glendale, He
claims also to have seen it
at the same time on Sunday
night,

A 39-year-old man reported
to the t that
he had observed something
with red, yellow and green
rotating lights at 11:17 p.m,
Stewart Hall, 8549 Abbington,
saw the object near his home,
stating that it was visible for
about a minute,

Karen Ellington, 17, 15587
LaSalle, was walking to the
front door of her home about
midnight, when she noticed an
object in the sky, It appeared
to be about 150 yards away,
according to the police re-
port and stood motionless over
the John Lodge Expressway,
near Linwood, It was ap-
proximately 500 feet in the
air, 9 feet long with a red
light on the left and a green
light on the right.

Miss Ellington told police
that the object stopped twice
and lights started flashing.
Its path of travel was from
the east to the west,

She said she had seen others
around the first of May,

2~—Nevada State Journal

Say

By GEORGE GALLUP
More than five million A:
cans claim to have seen sot)
thing they believed to be a “'f]
ing saucer," And, about
times as many people —
nearly halt of the U.S. ad
civilian population — belli
that these frequently repor
flying objects, while not ne

sarily “saucers,”

centages are translated
numbers of people.

late in the 1540's,

and military offic
have been Investigating }
dreds of reported sightings
unidentified flying objects.
recent rash of sightings prom,
ed a Congressional hearing |
month and also this special #
vey.

How do typical Americans
about flying saucers? How m
people have seen them? /
they real or imaginary? Do p;

t, on other planets?
More than 150 Gallup Poll
terviewers have been out qu
tioning typi

lation of their’ statements
views reveals the following:
First, almost everyone
per cent) has at least heard
Tead something sbout fly,
saucers. For something so hil
ly publicized as these objec
this finding may, at first,
seem unusual. However,
terms of the history of the p
c's awareness of other
dents or events, this figure
extraordinarily high. In fi

World Flying Saucer |

New York Times Service

“They accept spacecraft as a

LOS ANGELES, Calif. __|fact of life. Their interest is

The “urgent problem”
improving cOmmunications
with the thousands of visitors

of| in contacting spacemen di-

rectly or through telepathy.” |

j 2-6-6 |
Believers Convene | !
|

Green, who regularly runs

from outer space who sup-|for president as a “space age

posedly are circling the earth
was afforded solemn delib-
eration here this weekend at
a special convention of fly-
ing saucer buffs.

Among the nearly 300 dele-
gates was a_ self-professed
“interplanetary traveler”
named Standing Horse, an
Englishwoman who regularly
issues mimeographed reports
on her conversations with
Space travelers, a man who
offered to book “group

sightings” of flying saucers | pathy” and offered a pro-
and a presidential candidate|gram of instruction to other
campaigning on the flying|delegates who sought similar

saucer ticket.

THE SPACE buffs, who/tards, was kept busy signing
assembled in a cavernous es-| up “students.”

tablishment called the Blar-
ney Castle, weren’t much im-
pressed with Thursday’s So-
viet moon landing, but they
were awed and confused by
what they reported to be a
sharp increase in flying
saucers.

Oné delegate, Marianne
Francis, warned that
sightings could mark the be-
gigning of some “ominous
cNanges” for the earth’s pop-
ulation. But the convention

chairman, Dr.

etary visitors” would
out to be “angelic creatures
whose mission is to help
mankind.”

The delegates were gen-

candidate,” says he cannot}!
practice telepathy but insists|!
he has met spacemen on at}}
least six occasions. The last

of his visitors, he said, was};
four feet tall and came from

the Alpha Centauri solar

system.

A muscular, even-featured |’
young man named Wesley
Bateman said he never had
met spacemen but that he
was in “constant communica-
tion with them through tele-

contacts. His blonde wife,
Jonell, attired in black Leo-

“There is no mystery as to

2 SOUTH AFRICAN POLICEMEN
REPORT SIGHTING OF ‘SAUCER’

JOHANNESBURG, South Afri- The two men claimed that, as
ca—South ‘African police and ‘hey approached the object, it
—_ ri greg Thursday took off silenfly at great speed
a report that a flying saucer- aoe ; ‘
type object had landed on a clare SIOEIAG OME O8: She
main highway near Pretoria, the
country’s administrative capital. Scientists who examined the.

spot where the officers said that
they saw the object are reported
to have found that a six-foot
wide section of the tarred road
had been badly burned. Grass
on either side of the highway.
also was reported slightly ©

scorched.
(Associated Preis)

Two patrolling police officers
reported seeing the flaming
“saucer,” about 30 feet in di-
ameter, shortly after midnight.
One of them, Koos de Klerk,
&sid that the shiny copper-<ole
ored object resembled a giant
spinning top.

THE BOSTON HERALD, FRIDAY, SEPT. 17, 1965

the|

Frank|
Stranges, said the “interplan-|
turn}

|whether the space men are
| watching us — some have al-
| ready infiltrated our society,”
}said Bateman. “The mystery
}is why so many are coming.
What's going to happen?” |

Flying Saucers.

(To the Editor, S.C.M. Post)

Sir,—Citizens beware! This is
not a drili! If you report what
you see, your report will be
treated as hallucination. Your
honest desire to help solve an
aeronautical mystery will be
discounted. by harassing con-
frontation by paid investigators
who are instructed to suppress
the auvhenticity of their investi-

| gation.

The UFO Project research has
been operative continuously for

erally well groomed, articu-| more than 20 years. The scope

late men and women who
could have blended into any
PTA meeting. Many were
heads of organizations whose
members spotted and photo-

and extent of this project is a
carefully guarded subject. Dur-
ing that time it has maintained
a continuous status of “Classified
Information.” The only informa-
tion released by the U.S. Air

graphed “unidentified flying! Force for publication is’ periodic

objects” and claimed to main-
tain telepathic communica-
tion with space travelers.

NEARLY ALL agreed that
what they called the “flying
saucer movement” was un-
dergoing sharp expansion.
Two delegates
they were negotiating to pur-
chase radio stations to help
transmit their theories. Sev-

announced) For ‘¢ severdl years

. : |, Saucer
eral flying saucer magazines| (AFSCA)

reports of a few selected cases
of mistaken identity—such as
the report to this newspaper on
February 1, by Dr Allan Hynek:
“In Search Of Flying Saucers.”

Honest, sincere observers no
longer report UFO sightings to
accepted authority. (Why con-
tinue to slap your own face?)
actual sight-
ings of spaceships are compiled
at Flying Saucer Clubs all over
the world. Amalgamated Flying
Clubs of America

maintain a compre-

and hundreds of books were! hensive information department

on sale at the convention.

“These people are contac-
tee-oriented,”’ explained Ga
riel Green, a serious young

that registers Club activities, and
reports from all over the world.
Anyone can write to AFSCA,

b- 2004 N Hoover Street, Los An-

geles, California 90027, U.S.A.,

and receive. a concise, conscien-

man who served as president | tious report about any informa-
of the Amalgamated Flying|| tion le. is seeking.

Saucer Clubs of America.

We don’t need to search for

Flying Object
Sighted in Illinois

NORMAL, Ill.— (lp) —Sev- |
eral persons living on the)
same block here said they
saw an unidentified flying
object last night.

The object had four blink-
ing lights, red, white, blue
and green, proceeded north-
easterly, hovered over a
grove of trees, then returned
southwesterly. The object
was seen first by the Merle
Simpson family, then others.
They said it was flat and
small.

Flying Saucers—we only need
to acknowledge their presence.
Actually we are on one of the
strangest UFO’s in the universe.
Our “Friends” who are now in-
vestigating us cannot understand
our belligerant attitude toward
their conscientious effort to con-
tact us.
Neither can “I.
oe

UFO spotted 5-16-66

PASADENA (AP)—Scores of|
startled residents called news-
papers and police after sighting
what they described as blinking,
moving lights in the skies over
the San Gabriel Valley last
night.

Officers said some residents
saw the lights “travel fast, then
slow, then stop.” They said one
Pasadena area resident report-
ed the smell of perfume as the
lights appeared and moved.

2-3-66

“These flying saucer stories are getting more ridicue
lous every day.’

It'll be Long
“ui “i
_paucer Is

HERALD-NEW;:

By PETER A. DVARACKAS

Herald-News Sports Writer

Many months will pass before
the impact of the strange flying
objects which dominated the
North Jersey skies this week
fades into memory.

The bright white disk that
streaked across three counties
and hovered periodically over
the Wanaque Reservoir will pro-
vide an ample amount of con-
versation for weeks to come. In-
deed, thousands of eyewitnesses
know well the story of that
mysterious terrestrial stranger.

Not that the tale of the flying
saucer is over yet.

Investigators from the Nation-
al Investigation Committee on
Aerial Phenomena (NICAP) may
arrive today in Upper Passaic
County from Washington D.C. to
probe the UFO sightings.

Dr. George White, an elec-
tronics expert, and Dr. John
Pegano of Fort Lee will investi-
gate the scene of the unidentified
object and then report back to
NICAP. Announcement of the
impending study was made by
Richard Hall, assistant director
of NICAP.

Nightly Vigil

Police at Wanaque, the state's
largest water storage basin, con-
tinue to maintain a nightly vigil
at the headworks, in Ringwood
Avenue and Westbrook Road
to spot that weird disk of light
which was seen as late as Thurs-
day night making sharp dips and
maneuvers over the reservoir:

It was Tuesday at 6:30 p.m.
when residents, motorists, muni-
cipal officials, and police
glanced up at the sky and began
the first chapter of an. aerial

,SAW 6 FLYIN

SAUCERS

P

DAILY SKETOH
Tuesday,’ May 17, 1966

OLICE CONSTABLE Donald Cameron made out a report
last night and hoped the Chief Constable would believe

that he really DID see six flying saucers.
-Pc Cameron was at home on sick leave when he looked out
a window and saw six glowing objects hovering in the distance.
* “I thought I was seeing things and called my wife,” he said last night.
We watched them for about 30 seconds before they disappeared at speed

Police Kept Busy en ens

Spotters Jam Up-County
Roads for UFO Glimpse

RINGWOOD — If the little]them to move on, but they kept
men from outer space had the|/coming back on the other side
up-county police on the runjof the road, so we just had to
Tuesday, their earthly counter-|give a couple of them sum-
parts caused more trouble Fri-/monses. They had everything,
nee! night. cameras, binoculars, tele-

hrongs of the curious ringed] scopes. I was waiting to see one
normally deserted Wanaque/of them get out with a geiger
Reservoir in this small hamlet} counter.”
and created what old timers

Ringwood Police Lieutenant =e
Jack O’Hara said “We told(Continued on Page 2, Col. 7)

towards Manchester.
“They were about a mile
away. I could see them
clearly even though it was
a dul! day. They were white
and glowing. -
“One was bigger than
the others with a cup-
shaped dome — obviously
the mother ship. The
others were oval,” he added.
S$ he made out his re-
at his home in Chil-
road. St. Helens
, Pe. Cameron said:
“I suppose I will get
some ribbing from the lads,
but that is not what
worries me... it’s what
| the Chief Constable thinks.

the sky, however had failed to
remy a return appearance Fri-
lay.

Since the sightings, Tuesday,
both Wanaque and this borough
have been overpopulated with
television cameras, newsmen
and the curious.

Before

F JANUARY 15, 1965.

rgotten

mystery which has yet to be
|solved,

“Listen . . , this sounds crazy,
but I saw something in the sky.
Do you know what it is?” This
was the question posed to the
police at the North Jersey police
radio hook-up in Pompton Lakes.
The calls came in from Wana-
que, Ringwood, West Milford,
Paterson, Totowa, Wayne and
Butler.

Astounded residents were
searching for an_ explanation.
Even the police were dumb-
founded. They too saw the white
oval hovering in the heavens
from their prowl cars.

The UFO was described then
as a white and garishly bright
disk, two feet in diameter.

According to observers, the
odd movements of the myster-
jous visitor was enthralling.
Some felt as if it were “toying”
with police, citizens and bor-
ough officials by performing
dives almost into the reservoir;
at times appearing “as if it
were looking down” upon the
spectators from a silent ‘station-
ary position high in the heavens
and by making neat right angles
as if it were using the sky as
a.chalk board. _ :

Made Several Stops

The UFO then made quick
stops at various locations in the
community: Lakeland Regional
High School, the Houdaille sand
pit, the overhead bridge in Ring-
wood Avenue ... and then it
disappeared,

Hours later at 2:15 Wednesday
morning, it re-appeared over
Wyckoff and five minutes later
it was spied over the reservoir
in Wanaque where police say it
almost came to rest at the top
of the 1,500 foot long Raymond
Dam. It was gone at 4:15 a.m.

Police, reporters and resi-
dents saw the disk as it whisked
over Wanaque and Ringwood
both Wednesday and Thursday
night, ‘s

The story of the mystic sky
visitor is not without in
The United States’ Air Force re
leased a number of reports
which August Roberts, a mem-
ber of the ‘International
gence on unidentified Flying
jects claims are “‘a whitewash.”

Initially, when the object was.
first sighted, the Air Force said
it was an official helicopter with
a strong beacon. A few hours
later Air Force jets were spotted
by police flying over the Wana-

“might possibly have been. a
vernment experiment in the
creation of an anti-gravity ma-
chine.”
As yet nobody really seems
to know what the UFO was or

| But this is not the first time
ja UFO has been sighted over
the Wanaque. Some 18 years ago
|Charles Capen, former chief en-
gineer of the North Jersey Dis
trict Water Supply Commission
said he saw something that
looked very similar to the object
described in the newspaper.

Reservoir police claimed
to have seen something “round
and bright” two weeks ago, over
Lilly Hill in Stonetown and
Board Mountain near Sloatsburg
Road, according to Charles
Theodora,

Dean Noll, assistant engineer,
for NJDWSC does not believe
that the UFO might have been a
mysterious attempt to pollute
the water supply. There are
“easier ways”, he said.

Throngs of interested persons
are still lining the perimeter of

hae reservoir to catch a glimpse

the brilliant phantom that has,
for the moment, vanished. into
the ether.