September 6, 1986,

Mrs. Levi Li Dow
a New Haugehive 03045
Dear Mrgé‘1 Dow:

Your letter of August 3lst, with enclosures,
has been received and I appreciate the interest which prompted
you to write.

In response to your inquiry, this Bureau is
strictly an investigative agency of the Federal Government
and, as such, neither makes evaluations nor draws conclusions
as to the character or integrity of any organization, publication
or individual. Iam sorry I cannot be of assistance to you;
however, you may be sure your communication will be made a
matter of record.

Sincerely yours,

ean
SAD

John Edgar Hoover
Director

ee
OQ ONIGVAY~0,93u
amd C 9 dX

Ny
NOTE: Bufiles contain no record of correspondent or aii
Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc. + °° /

COMM-FBI

MAILED 3
SEP 6 = 1966

ED:jeg (3)

®

TRUE COPY

August 31, 1966

J. E. Hoover, F.B.I. Director
Wash. D. C.

Dear Sir:

I amy member of ''Nicap"’ and am very much
interested in U. F.O (Flying Saucers)

Several weeks ago a fellow employee received a
letter (business) from Arizona with a stamp on the back (see
enclosed)

Being interested in U. F.O's I asked for the stamp
& sent $3.00 for the 12 issues of AFSCA.

Having received & read my first issue I feel it isn't
just what it appears on the surface. I can't say just why, but with
my limited idea of how communists operate it strikes me it is backed
by them.

My reason for writing this is that I consider myself
a true American, I am told my ancestors go back to a Gr Gr Gr
Grandmother who was an Indian Squaw & I'm proud of it. If, by
writing for this AFSCA Report, my name could in anyway be aligned
with the communist party, I would like to know if there is any wayI ~~
can get things straightened out.

I may be all wrong about my interpretation of this
report but i'd like to be sure since I expect I will get the other issues

as they come up. REC 9% Fa YU

I will be 63 yrs old in a few days. My husband passed
away 4-30-65 I have worked as Mer of Reins Dept for the N. H. Ins
Co in Manchester N. H 44 years this month

Mrs. Levi J. Dow Very truly yours,

Goffstown (Mrs) Florence C. Dow 4 sep 8 9
New Hampshire 03045

AFSCA's &2-22 594-445

(Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America )
3rd National

LYING SAUCER.
{

* EXHIBITS $2 aa da.
* BOOKS At The Beautiful, New =

* LITERATURE CENTENNIAL COLISEUM (4590 S. Virginia St.)

Reno, Nevada - July 89,10, 1966,

Program: 10 A.M. to 11 P.M.

SPEAKERS ARE: Wayne S. Aho, Carl A. Anderson, Orfeo Angelucci, Michael ''X"' Barton,
Wesley Bateman, Marianne Francis, Dr. Daniel W. Fry, Calvin C. Girvin, Gabriel Green,

Dr. George King, Hanno Mayberry, Howard Menger, Laura Mundo, Mel Noel, Sidney Padrick, |
Chief Standing Horse, Dr. Frank E, Stranges, Mollie Thompson, Hope Troxell, George W.
Van Tassel, Hal Wilcox. |

PSE fe fy

FE, f

Official Journal of the

Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc. _

|
|

HEAR: Amazing experiences with spacecraft from other planets and their occupants by the

greatest assembly of contactee-speakers since our Los Angeles convention in 1959

at the Statler-Hilton.

SEE: Startling new photographic evidence —the biggest collection of Flying Saucer photos
on display in the history of the saucer movement. Actual color movies and new still
photos of Flying Saucers.

MEET: IN PERSON, PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD ACTUAL CONTACTS WITH SPACESHIPS
AND THEIR CREWS FROM OTHER WORLDS. {

LEARN: About this important subject which is so vital to the welfare and survival of humanity {

- in cur times. \ \
ATTEND: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention. You'll be glad you did! Fill out the Advance
Registration form below. Do it Now!

For Motel & Hotel room information, write to: The Greater Reno Chamber of Commerce
P.O. Box 2109; Reno, Nevada

AFSCA 3rd NATIONAL CONVENTION ADVANCE REGISTRATION FORM
To: AFSCA Headquarters; 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90027. Phone: 662-4404.

Yes, count me in! I don't want to miss joining with you at this important convention
and helping to support this vital movement. Here is my $ . Please send me
Advance Reservation tickets ($5.00 for the 3 days, or $2.00 per day). IMPORTANT: Iam
also enclosing a stamped, self-addressed envelope for the return of my tickets. ADVANCE
REGISTRATIONS must be received at AFSCA Headquarters no later than JUNE 30th!!!

SPECIAL AFSCA THIRD NATIONAL FLYING SAUCER CONVENTION ISSUE

Name Street

City State oe en wap ede ISSUENO. 24 JULY , 1966 50c

PSeZOnsr2ZAanZe

SPECIAL AFSCA

BRIGHT WORLD IN HANDS OF SAUCER MOVEMENT

(Editor's Note: This special message was
received from Master Kalen-Li Retan (head of the
planet Korendor, about 400 light years distant) on
May 4, 1966 via special directional short-wave radio
by Bob Renaud, the young electronic-technician whose
remarkable story we printcd in issues #18, 19, 20,21,
a 22, and which will be continued in our next issue.

Since Bob's initial radio contact in 1961, he has
talked with the crew of a spacecraft as he watched
them on his special TV screen in his home — and
eventually met his contacts in-person; visited their
undersea and underground bases on our planet; was
taken aboard many of their spaceships; and was
actually allowed to pilot two of their small scout
craft — one on a short solo flight.)

ar

"Kalo (Hello), friends. We will get directly to
the point of our message to you. Frankly, we are
appalled at the state of Earth at present. Despite our
constant warnings and even our actual intervention in
some instances, the condition upon your planet grows
~steadily worse.

One subject on everyone's lips these days is
Vietnam. From a little civil war, it has grown
steadily and inexorably into a full scale conflict
between the world's three major powers: the United
States, the Soviet Union, and Communist China.

Many influential people have used the approach
of patriotism and love of God and Country to twist
decent human feelings into dangerous channels of
thought and action. With their charges of treason and
sympathy with the enemy, they have aroused a good
portion of the populace to a state of fear, distrust,
and hatred of those who seek peace and love. Unfor-
tunately, because some unconventional individuals
have been associated with the peace movement, that
entire operation has been seriously hindered.

Your government is a military puppet, a mere
parrot of the monstrosity that is the Military-Indus-
trial complex. Your senators, except for a few, are
robots, speaking what they are told to say.

Your President is, unfortunately, a pawn of
their needs and demands. We have contacted him
several times concerning the state of affairs, and he
has said that he could do nothing to change them, for
if he were to speak out against the Asian conflict, he
would be removed. This is what happened to the late
Mr. Kennedy who, in his great humanitarianism, was
reluctant to sacrifice his ideals and his visions for
the sake of the Military Industrial octopus. He paid
the supreme penalty for his efforts in behalf of

FLYING SAUCERS

Official Journal of the

ISSUE NO. 24

CONVENTION

MESSAGE

humanity.

Make no mistake. Your government is not in the
White House or the Congress. IT IS IN THE PENTA-
GON, AND IN THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE VAST
"DEFENSE"-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES. It is THEY,
not the President or the Congressmen, who run the
United States. The facade government is merely to
allay undue alarm or suspicion of the people.

Examine another aspect of the Asian war, the
ECONOMIC side. Do you recall that, in the stock
reports just recently, the Dow-Jones average
dropped sharply BECAUSE OF A RUMOR THAT
NORTH VIETNAM HAD MADE A PEACE BID? Does
the staggering implication of this news evade you?
Stock prices suffering a heavy loss because of a
rumor that peace might come to pass!

This thought is most distressing. Your economy
relies so heavily upon war and destruction, that if it
were to stop, THE UNITED STATES ECONOMY
WOULD SUFFER A MASSIVE DEPRESSION! Your
money system would collapse like a house of cards.
Millions would be unemployed, sick, hungry and
homeless, Tremendous industrial complexes would
close their doors.

The utterly appalling fact is this: WAR IS
PROFITABLE. Highly so! Every major conflict has
been accompanied by a strong peak in your monetary
prosperity. Peace has usually been economically
painful!

After World War 1, the nation coasted for a while
upon the fat put on during the boom of the war years.
In 1929, the bottom fell out. After the Korean War,
in the 1950's came another recession. What comes
after Vietnam? No one knows, and no one wants to
find out. The war in Vietnam is bringing an unheard-
of degree of affluence in the United States. Why kill
a good thing by ending the war? The philosopy, in
essence, is this: It is economically expedient to send
military forces to Vietnam and elsewhere in Asia in
order to wage war, because in doing so, the United
States' economy is bolstered and maintained at a high
level of prosperity; human life is secondary to the
preservation of economic well-being!

It is thus evident that, unless a drastic change is
made in the structure of your economy, war will
never end because the Military-Industrial complex
WON'T LET IT!

Many of you fear Communism. Where did that
fear come from, I ask you? From within yourself?
NO! It was brainwashed into you by the Military-
Industrial complex. Who controls all your news
media? The government and the advertisers. Who,
then, is in a position to dictate what shall be printed?

INTERNATIONAL

JULY , 1966

Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.
International Headquarters: 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles,, Calif. 90027,U.S.A.

GABRIEL GREEN, Editor
HELEN GREEN, Asst. Ed.
FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL (6 issues-$3.00.
Membership-$1.00) is published quarterly. Copyright
© 1965 by Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of
America. All rights reserved. The information
presented in ''Flying Saucers International'' does not
necessarily represent the views of AFSCA. The num-
ber after your name on the address label indicates the
issue with which your subscription expires. Subscrip-
tion renewals will start where the previous one ended,
and will be acknowledged only by the new number after
your name on future issues. A ''Time to Renew"!

Dedicated to
The Physical, Spiritual, and Economic Emancipation of Man

A Non-profit Organization

notice will be enclosed in the last issue for which you
have paid. New subscriptions will start with the last
issue published, unless a specific starting issue num-
ber is requested. When writing to AFSCA for a reply,
enclose a stamped self-addressed envelope. Not
responsible for magazines lost in the mail due to sub-
scribers' failure to inform us of their current address-
es. Prices subject to change. Payment must accompa-
ny order. Send cash, check or money order to: AFSCA;
2004 North Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California 90027.
Phone: 662-4404. 2

local Post Office and then let us know.

FLYING SAUCER

NEW BOOKS NOW AVAILABLE FROM AFSCA:
(Price includes 15¢ mailing charge. California
residents also add 47 sales tax.)

1. COUNCIL OF SEVEN LIGHTS by George Van
Tassel, now reprinted — $3.65.

2. THE ADVENT OF THE COSMIC VIEWPOINT by
Bryant Reeve — $6.15.

3. FLYING SAUCERS THROUGH THE AGES by Paul
Thomas — $4.15.

4. OTHER TONGUES, OTHER FLESH by George
Hunt Williamson, now reprinted — $6.10.

5. SECRET OF THE ANDES by Brother Philip - $4.
6. FLYING SAUCERS AND THE THREE MEN by
Albert K. Bender — $4.15.

7. FLYING SAUCERS — SERIOUS BUSINESS by
Frank Edwards — $6.10.

8. INCIDENT AT EXETER by John G. Fuller -$6. 10.

9. THE HOLLOW EARTH by Dr. Raymond Bernard,
now available again in soft cover for $3.15.

PAST CONVENTIONS & SAUCER ACTIVITIES:
FEBRUARY 5,6, 1966: Dr. Frank E. Stranges
Annual UFO Space and Science Convention was held at
the Blarney Castle Inn Annex in Los Angeles.

JUNE 4,5,6, 1966: Dr. Daniel W. Fry's Man in
Space Symposium took place at Dunsmuir, near Mt.
Shasta in Northern California.

JUNE 25,26,27, 1966: Buck Nelson's 10th Annual
Spacecraft Convention was held at Buck's Mountain
View Ranch; Route 1, Box 236; Mountain View, Mo.

BACK ISSUES of UFO INTERNATIONAL are now
selling 11 issues for $3.00, while they last (issue
#11 is now out of print). There is much timeless and
valuable information available in these magazines.

OUT OF PRINT: 1. FLYING SAUCERS: TOP
SECRET by Major Donald E. Keyhoe is now out of
print, although it is listed in our new brochure.
(Some saucer books have occassionally gone out of
print without notice.)

2. BACK ISSUES #6 and 11 are now out of print. We
still have only a few copies left of #9 which we have
priced at $1.00 each in an effort to preserve them for
serious researchers and collectors. Please do not
order these items, or any other materials which we
do not advertise.

PRICE CHANGE: The price has gone up on two
of the better known books in the saucer field, which
we must now order from England: 1. THE SKY
PEOPLE by Brinsley le Poer Trench, was $4.65.

It is now $5.10, postpaid. 2. ROAD IN THE SKY by
George Hunt Williamson, was $4.15. It is now $5.10,
postpaid. California residents please add 47 tax.

"UFOI'" ISSUE #23 CORRECTIONS: Page 4, line
3: the date should be April 24, 1964, instead of
1965. On page 4, line 1 of the 7th paragraph, insert
"later, via telepathy" after ''They told him ---."'

SEATTLE, WASHINGTON area residents please
note: AFSCA Unit #25 meets every 4th Friday at the
Seattle Public Library, Room 325 at 7:30 P.M.,
under the capable direction of Mr. Leverett G.
Tallman. The meeting is free, and all who are
interested in the Flying Saucer subject are invited to
come to listen and to participate in the discussion.

ZIP CODES ARE IMPORTANT: If the address
label on this magazine does not have your zip code
number on it, please notify us as to what your num-
ber is. If you don't know your number, call your
Thanks!

AFSCA BROCHURES AND SAUCER-PHOTO
POST CARDS, sent to friends and acquaintances, are
a good way to help spread the word about Flying

NEWS IN _ BRIEF

Saucers. Brochures are l¢ each (this just about pays
the postage to mail them to you). Saucer post cards
are 50 for $1.00.

WHEN WRITING AFSCA, if you wish a personal
reply to a specific inquiry, please enclose a stamped,
self-addressed envelope. No replies can otherwise
be sent. General information may be obtained via
our brochures and magazines. We are sorry that we
cannot have a lengthy correspondence with all the
hundreds of persons who would like us to do so, but
unfortunately we have neither the time nor the staff
for it — and our mail has been greatly increased in
the last few months.

SAUCER NEWS CLIPPINGS: Your response has
been wonderful! We've received so many clippings
from you helpful people that we simply hadn't enough
space to print all your individual names and cities.
So we say a big and sincere THANKS to all of you.

, And pleasejdo keep 'em coming! (One reminder:
please DON'T writé on or near the clippings.)

WEDDING BELLS rang on Saturday, June 4, 1966
for contactee Elary J. Willsie and Sophia Martinez
Olivares of Mexico City. The ceremony took place
at Los Angeles, California. Among those present
were Sophia's parents and her younger sister, all of
Mexico City; Mrs. Maud Willsie, mother of the
groom; and your editor, who was also official photog-
rapher for the occasion. Mr. and Mrs. Willsie will
live in Los Angeles. Congratulations and best wishes,
Elary and Sophia!

MEL NOEL, former Air Force Lieutenant and
fighter pilot, is fast becoming very well known for his
lectures on his amazing experiences with Flying
Saucers while on active duty in the service. He has
been speaking to capacity crowds wherever he goes.
On Thursday, June 23, 1966, the personable Mr.
Noel spoke to a standing-room only crowd at the
Aeronautical Sciences Building on Beverly Blvd. in
West Los Angeles. We hear that he is booked to
speak at 57 colleges across the nation! Recently he
appeared on the Louis Lomax TV Show, and has been
heard on many radio shows. He leaves shortly for
Mexico City, where he has been invited by an official
government group to speak. He has been promised
some interesting experiences by a local contactee
there, and we look forward to hearing his report on
his return! Good work, Mel, and good luck!

SID PADRICK; contactee from Watsonville,
Calif., who spent two hours aboard a space craft,
was recently in Los Angeles when he was guest
speaker at the regular monthly meeting of the Ingle-
wood Unit of Understanding on Saturday, June 25,
1966. Meetings are held on the 4th Saturday of every
month at the Inglewood Business and Professional
Woman's Club; 820 Java St., Inglewood, at 8:00 P.M.
Donation is $1.00. Information: Mrs. Roberta T.
Forrester, Program Chairman; P.O. Box 146;

Inglewood, Calif. 90306. Phone: 677-5214. Also,
Mr. and Mrs. Lee Yates. Phone: 293-4743.

NEW AFSCA UNITS:
45. AFSCA Unit #45; Everett, Washington;

Ray and Jean Sebring, Co-Directors;

1032 S.W. 126th St.; Seattle, Wash. 98146.
46. AFSCA Unit #46; Ben Blazs, Director;

3057 Electric; Lincoln Park, Mich. 48146.

Several other new AFSCA Units have been formed
and will be listed in the next issue (#25). Persons
interested in forming AFSCA Units in their cities
should contact AFSCA Headquarters for information.

15

FLYING SAUCER

COMING 1966 FLYING SAUCER CONVENTIONS

JULY 8,9,10: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention,
Centennial Coliseum, Reno, Nev. (See details on back)
JULY 15,16,17: WAYNE AHO sponsors the

Northwest's 5th Annual Interplanetary Age Conven-
tion. Lectures, exhibits and New Age topics. Ad-
vance registrations — $1.00 per day for adults, 50¢
for students. Write to: Mrs. Lorena Vogt; 815 N.E.
110th; Seattle, Wash. Phone: Emerson 3-0956.

AUGUST 6 thru 14th: DR. NEVA DELL
HUNTER'S 12th Annual Quimby Conference of Trans-
lation. Lectures and discussions on New Age Topics,
including the stars, science and metaphysics. In
lovely scenic country at a beautiful, modern motor-
hotel. $2.50 per day, attendance. Information from:
Quimby Center; P.O. Box 453; Alamogordo, N.M.

AUGUST 19, 20,21: SPACE RESEARCH, Inc.'s
Second Annual Convention, at the North Branch
YMCA in Spokane, Washington. Scenic location near
the Spokane River. Indoor and outdoor convention
activities. For information, write to: Space
Research Inc., No. 6815 Julia, Spokane, Wash.

OCTOBER 22,23: GEORGE VAN TASSEL'S 13th
Annual Spacecraft Convention at Giant Rock, Calif. in
the desert 17 miles north of Yucca Valley. Bring
your own camping equipment and enjoy the outing.

OCTOBER 29,30: 10th ANNUAL NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA SPACECRAFT CONVENTION, Clare-
mont Hotel, Berkeley, Calif. Info: Angela Kilsby;
1265 Montgomery Blvd.; San Francisco, Calif. 94127.

OUR NEW NAME: Our magazine, formerly
called 'UFO International", has now become ''Flying
Saucers International'', which we feel to be a more
appropriate title, since Flying Saucers are no longer
Unidentified Flying Objects as far as we are concern-
ed. Flying Saucers have become a serious issue
with thinking people all over the world. We believe
that most of the objects which have been sighted have
been of extraterrestrial origin, controlled by intelli-
gent beings who, in form, are very much like us.
Therefore, we hope you will understand our reasons
for changing titles, and that you will continue to
enjoy reading our publication under its new banner.

DR. RAYMOND BERNARD, founder of the
Biosophical Society of Santa Caterina, Brazil, passed
away on Sept. 10, 1965. He was the author of ''The
Hollow Earth" and several other books concerned
with the hollow earth theory.

MARIA ELLIOTT, contactee, psychic and
founder of Maria Creative Womanhood Foundation,
was a recent guest on the Bob Grant Radio Show, and
the Pamela Mason TV Show. Glamorous Maria now
has her own program every Tuesday afternoon at
2:30 p.m. on KTYM radio. She may be seen in
person every Wed. evening at Holland House Restau-
rant, 8:00 p.m. in the downstairs meeting room.

An interesting program may be heard on New Age
Topics, and free readings are given. For more
information about Maria's appearances, classes,
etc., phone 657-1631, or write: Dr. Maria Elliott;
1543 Sunset Plaza Drive; Los Angeles, Calif. 90069.

DR. GEORGE KING, founder of the Aetherius
Society, was host at the official opening of the
Society's new headquarters at 6202 Afton Place; Los
Angeles, Calif. 90028; on March 5, 1966. After the
program Dr. King personally escorted us around the
attractive quarters. He also reported that a high
Space Being in physical form had visited there
recently for an hour and fifteen minutes and, after

14

NEWS IN

BRIEF

walking around the premises, left his blessing on the
Aetherius Society and its work. For further inform-
ation call 465-9652, or write to the above address.

DELLA LARSON, who for over a decade was the
guiding light and main instigator of Flying Saucer
meetings and activities in the San Francisco Bay
Area, passed away on October 25, 1965. She was
70 years old. She will be remembered for her
energetic and enthusiastic dedication to the goals of
the Flying Saucer cause, as well as for the highly
successful annual Northern California Space Craft
Conventions which she organized for nine years.
(Della, we salute you!)

MAX MILLER, former publisher of the now-
defunct ''Saucers'' magazine, and author of ''Flying
Saucers: Fact or Fiction" (now out of print), has a
new role. He is now editor-publisher of "Real" mag-
azine which may be found on the newstands for 50¢.
The August '66 issue devotes about half of its space to
the Flying Saucer subject and will be well worth your
investigation.

WiLBUR MILLER, one of the early researchers
in the Flying Saucer Movement, passed away on
March 5, 1966. He was known for his fine channel
contacts with several Space Beings, including Monka
of Mars. He also was the co-author — with his wife,
Evelyn — of the book 'We of the New Dimension."
Although he was a native of Missouri he had, in
recent years, been a resident of Los Angeles and of
Morongo Valley, Calif. (Good journey, Will!)

HOPE TROXELL, founder of the School of
Thought, now situated in Independence, Calif. (P.O.
Box 458), reported recently that the neighboring
towns of Bishop and Lone Pine had partial blackouts
during an evening channel (teltpathic) session she was
having with the Space Brothers. The lights in Inde-
pendence went out completely for several minutes by
a gradual fade-out, and then came on again in the
same manner. During this time, the Space Being
speaking through Hope said to those present: ''Be not
afraid. We are guardians of the race. Protection
will be given to those in the area."

HAL WILCOX made a fine guest appearance on
the Joe Pyne TV Show, April 30, 1966. Hal passed
the lie-detector test with flying colors and conducted
himself with dignity and fortitude, which isn't always
easy on the Joe Pyne Show. During the test, Hal
stated that he had taken a saucer ride to visit the
second planet from the star, Alpha Centauri.

M.I.N.D. stands for Mental Investigations of
New Dimensions, an organization recently formed by
Wesley and JoNell Bateman. Their activities include
meetings, courses and public appearances. They
have demonstrated on several occassions for groups
of up to 20 people, their ability to telepathically
direct the movements of visable spacecraft overhead.
Write: M.I.N.D.; 4916 Franklin Ave.; Hollywood,
California 90027. Phone: 661-1731.

HELEN & GABRIEL GREEN contributed their
bit to the education of nearly 300,000 young people to
the saucer subject at the Teen-Age Fair, April 1 thru
10 at the Hollywood Palladium, where AFSCA had a
booth to exhibit saucer photos, show slides, and to
disseminate information. We handed out over 13,000
brochures and saucer photo post cards, and talked
ourselves hoarse answering questions for 12 hours
each day. Gabriel also made over a dozen radio and
TV appearances and interviews during the Fair.

We also had another booth at the National
Aviation and Aerospace Exhibition at the Pan Pacific
Auditorium, May 17 thru 22. Yes, we've been busy!

_

—_——-s

The Military-Industrial complex, by opinion-control
through the use of psycho-politics (brainwashing by
controlled news management).

Consider this: In order to survive, a commer-
cial medium, such as a newspaper or magazine,
requires a vast amount of advertising revenue. The
mere subscription fees will not cover the costs.
Thus, they depend for their continued existence upon
money paid by advertisers. Suppose, then, that the
editor of a certain newspaper decides that he is
opposed to the Vietnam policy, and says so in his
paper. The advertisers simply say to the editor,
"Either you toe the mark and print what we want, or
we'll withdraw our advertising."

Such pressures are a fact of life. The newsmen
are torn between their higher devotion to Truth, and
also to the lower level of their physical needs.
Rather than jeopardize their security and their
futures they, of course, submit meekly to power.
Their actions are fully understandable, and we do not
hold them responsible.

We throw the blame directly on the Military-
Industrial complex which, by its underhanded dealing,
threats of force, and economic pressure and retali-
ation, has crushed the spirit of American journalism
and turned it from a dynamic motivating force in
American life into a weak-willed, subservient
mouthpiece for the power-masters. We blame them
for the death of journalistic freedom and individuality!

One more comment on this topic: May I say that
a better economic system is already known to the
leaders of the Flying Saucer Movement. It is the
system known as Universal Economics. As we have
said over and over before, it is the non-money
economic system which MUST be applied on your
planet before you can start to resolve most of your
major problems and thus begin to establish a highly-
advanced, non-destructive state of existance on
Earth, such as we of more advanced planets have
enjoyed for so long. INVESTIGATE THIS SYSTEM
to evaluate it for its merit — then ACT to apply it!
YOUR VERY SURVIVAL AS A CIVILIZATION MAY
DEPEND UPON IT!

Perhaps this is an opportune time to clarify a
few questions which have been asked about us.

Do we of Korendor work with the local planets
in our operations? Yes, we do cooperate with them
a great deal. However, our work on Earth is
relatively independent of the local planets. We have
many times overstepped what is considered to be the
limit of interference upheld by Venus, Mars, and
other planets. This has caused a good deal of debate
between them and us. Each time we have pointed out

that we of Korendor are basically pragmatic in nature.

Although we do respect the laws of self-destiny, we
feel also that where stepping in is required to prevent
disaster, it is our right and our duty to do so.

We have interfered in such places as the United
States, China, Russia, and on a large scale in
Vietnam. This has caused no end of consternation in
the local Tribunal of Planets. We are sympathetic to
their viewpoint, but we do feel that their policy is
limited in its capacity to achieve the desired goals.

It is our opinion that one cannot stand on the sidelines
and achieve any noticeable results.

As I have said before, we have infiltrated your
planet. We are directly involved in Earth's life.

You might say that you have been invaded — a strong
way of phrasing it, to be sure, but nonetheless
factual, since we walk and work amongst you daily!

We have been asked about our physical appear-
ance. We are humanoid, indistinguishable from
yourselves, except that in our natural form we aver-
age three to four feet in height. Every other dimen-
sion is proportionately scaled, so that photographs of
us would not reveal our origin in any way.

We are able to increase our height while on
Earth through a technical process related to telepor-
tation. It is concerned with recording the atomic and
molecular structures of our bodies, and then repro-
ducing them identically on a larger scale. Differ-
ences in our internal structure are adjusted by the
computer which controls the reproducer.

Our most common skin color is a little darker
than yours, although we have skin colors which vary
as yours do all over the Earth. Usually, however,
we would look ''tan'' to you. We are NOT green, blue,
or heliotrope, as has been suggested!

Concerning our language, we generally use one
of two tongues and we are fairly familiar with a third.
On Korendor itself we speak the native language,
Korendian. It is similar in many ways to your own
languages since it, like yours, was originally derived
from Galingua, one of the two universal tongues.

The other is Solex Mal, which is more familiar to
you, since it is used by your local Solar System
planets. It is seldom heard now in our sector of
space, as Galingua has replaced it almost completely.

Unlike your own, however, the Korendian-
Galinguan speech is very rhythmic, and has few
sibilant sounds, such as '"'s"' or ''z''. Some of the
sharper sounds like "'c'! and ''k'' are minimized. It is
a beautiful language which is very musical and
pleasant to hear.

Perhaps you would be surprised to learn that
ancient Latin was liberally taken from Galingua.
There are many similarities in the two languages.
Even modern English has roots on other worlds!

In concluding my message to you, may I say —
people of Earth: open up your minds and your hearts
to the world around you. There is so much to be
learned, so much to be discovered. Don't waste
precious hours and days in bigotry and ignorance,
and in senseless fighting and killing. To do so is
truly a crime against nature and humanity.

At this stage where you have the very stars
almost in your grasp, how irrational and barbaric it
is to spend futile hours warring with your brothers.
As an old saying on your world puts it: "As you make
your bed, so shall you lie in it.'' The decision does
not seem difficult. Here are the alternatives: A
world living in harmony, justice, security and abun-
dance for all, or a world continuing to reap the
bloody harvests that grow from the seeds of hatred
and mistrust. If left to their own devices, the
majority of mankind will forge onward to a destiny of
destruction and annihilation, oblivious to the danger
in their actions. They are short-sighted; they care
little for the future.

It is you New Age people, dedicated to the wel-
fare of all mankind, and having the vision and under-
standing of the ways to build the better world of
tomorrow, who must lead the way. You have the
future in YOUR hands, if you will but shoulder your
responsibilities. The Flying Saucer Movement, as
you call it, belongs to you. Support it in every way
possible. Help it to grow until it is influential
thoughout your world. Go out into the world and
guide the misguided, find the lost, and recover the
strays. We are behind you all] the way. As we have
said many times before, we will take two steps for
every one that you take to help yourselves.

The time has come for nations to ''bury the
hatchet", to clasp hands, and plunge into the future
together — in co-operation toward mutual goals.

Look to the heavens and realize that your destiny
is not in bleak atomic desolation, but in the magnifi-
cent greatness that you can achieve if you will but
work for it. Choose the right path and you will soon
qualify to join with us in our journeys amongst the
stars.

Va i Luce (Go in Light)."

Kalen-Li Retan 3

" LANAUA 1900 PIPES:

142.2 Che Hondon Free Dress “ee...
: di L S | ‘S$ . od a vw N S v—“S An unidentified flying object
= i ( Western Ontarios Foremost Newspaper awison by ‘T family ‘of ei

Lewiston police said Patricia
ane of 35 Tarr Ave. spotted
the UFO at about 9:17 p.m.
above her home.
According to police, the
Landry woman and seven other
Persons spotted the object which
was described as bright blue
and gray in colar, oval in shape.
It was sid the UFO hovered
for a few seconds and then
“took off? at a high rate of
speed in an easterly direction,

118th YEAR OF PUBLICATION LONDON, ONTARIO, TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 1966—36 PAGES *

Tracked by Radar

UFOs Sighted Over Wide Section of District

Gabe
15-7:15)

irvin
(Space Age Songs)

H, Troxell
Mel Noel
662-4404,

1966
Green

Wes Bateman
Calvin G

Space Tapes(6

G:
MARIANNE FRANCIS

ways to improve effect-
iveness of Flying Sauc-
er Movement.Come pre-+
pared with suggestions.
"Messages From Our
graphed Flying Saucers
as anAir Force Fight-
er Pilot''Ch:

Space Brothers"
"Zemkla, Interplane-

tary Avatar"
Gold Room speakers.

Flying Saucer Council
Meeting (for all speak-
ers only). Ch

Green. Discussion of
Space Tapes(12:15-1
"Saucer Ride-1965"!
CALVIN GIRVIN
"Moon Mysteries
Revealed"

HAL WILCOX

Ch: Laura Mundo
MEL NOEL ''I Photo-
Written Questions

Phone

Ch

(Space Age Songs)
Ch

RENO, NEVADA

tted in lecture and exhibit

halls. The Dick Miller Space Tapes played at

CENTENNIAL COLISEUM
lunch and dinner hours are all different.

D. Fry| Ch

M

ten questions answered]answered by today's
Program subject to change without notice.

GEORGE Van TASSEL | SIDNEY PADRICK
2004 N. Hoover St.; Los Angeles, Californ

Chairman: Gabe Green | Chairman

From Mars"

"Kumar,

Ch

DR.

Ch

WAYNE AHO
Ch

"Free Energy
Power''Ch
DAN FRY
GABE GREEN
No smok

{ MAIN _ HALL GOLD ROOM

Your Reno host, Miguel Ribera, Dir., AFSCA Unit No.5.

is
15)

irvin

in G

Green

so
Xe}
oO
al

=
fe)
fe)
m4
Q
4
fe)
O

Hanno Mayberry

Orfeo Angelucci
GEORGE KING
Marianne Franc
Carl Anderson
Marianne Francis

Wayne Aho

Calv:

G.
Frank Stranges

"The Nine Freedoms"!
"Temples of the High

"Christmas 1962 on
"Flying Saucers and
the Father's Plan"
Written questions

Jupiter"

MICHAEL BARTON
Ch

"UFO's and World
Prophesy"

AFSCA Units invited.
DR, Frank STRANGES

lay.

AFSCA Unit Directors
Meeting. Those inter-
ested in forming

"The Hollow Earth
Mystery"

Ch

DR.

"The Frequency
Barrier"

"Secret of the

HOPE TROXELL

Ch

(Space Age Songs)

Ch

Ch
(Space Age Songs)

FRY | WESLEY BATEMAN

Ch
Gold Room speakers.

ORFEO ANGELUCCI
Space Tapes(6:15-7
LAURA MUNDO

You be the judge.

ger
Writ-

an area stretching from Sar-
nia to Kintore, northwest of

sitting stock-still in mid-air.
Some were poking along and

Mi
THE SUN-BULLETIN—Bingha: fi Blt

Not star, says collector
of flying saucer photos

Tuesday. He hopes to talk with of two “visits” by unidenti-

The director of Unit 40 of the
‘Amalgamated Flying Saucer
Clubs of America is not con-
vinced that the object sighted in
the skies over Port Dickinson
Tuesday night was the star Arc-
turus,

others who saw the object.

“I know enough about astro-
momy to know that a star does
mot behave in that manner,”
Gerald M. Reynolds of 684 State
St. said last night.

Mr. Reynolds said he talked
with persons who witnessed a
strange object flashing multi-
colored lights about 8:30 p.m

seen over Binghamton,

laughed.

Mr. Reynolds, a construction} dict: swamp gas.
foreman, is 60 years old.
has a large file of photographs
of flying saucers and other ma-| Who witnessed what they
terial relating to space flight.

He admits that not all sight-
ings are mysterious, and told of
the time two persons called him
to tell him about strange lights

“One turned out to be the
planet Jupiter... and the other
light came from a house or a | sightings now wore the tag
car on Ely Park hill,” he | of an “official explanation,”

“There is substantial evi-
dence we are being observed
by some sort of device which

of them in & chartered plane,
but found only two high-flying

of UFO's, is director of the
investigations committee.

high.
Fifteen minutes lgter at Kin-

Te majority of the Western tore,

six miles northeast of

{THE TELEGRAM, Teronto, Sat, March 26, 1966 f

ay

Mont.-Star, 4-19-66

Swamp gas still ‘flying’ [Photographed

DETROIT — (UPI) —
The U.S. Air Force closed
its books today on the case UFO sightings

fied flying objects, It's ver-
He news conference it

But some of the people peared “very

thought wa’ a landing by a
glowing, ex tr a-errestrial
space craft, were hot com-
pletely convinced the ex-
perts were right.

‘And even while the two
Most spectacular Michigan

Hillsdale and Dexter
southern Michigan.

UFO sightings continued to
|POp up across the country,

Dr. J. Allen Hynek, the
top Air Force adviser on
climaxed
three days of on-the-scene
investigation. by telling a
ap-
likely”
swamp gas was responsible
for mass reports of strange
glowing objects this week at

William Van Horn, Hills-
dale civil defense director,
said he was “dissatisfied”
with the explanation be-
cause Hynek’s investigation
of the sighting was ‘too
brief” and because Hynek

Flying Saucer,

year-old Ingersoll District Col-
legiate Institute student, also
said she saw a “clear white
light which kept dimming and
getting brighter.”

Larry, her 13-year-old broth-
er, saw the same object but
he insisted that when it be-
came dim “I could see a red
olor coming from it.”

(is London, James T. Dayus,

f 572 Hutton Rd., came home

sidestepped mention of the| Picture Censoredjrm a cub meeting with three

report from two college

co-eds who said they saw the| men or ad

RAVENNA, Ohio, April 19

UFO close-up as it swept) _ “We were close, closer than

past their window.

Other UFO _ Sightings,
meanwhile, were reporte:
from a drive-in restauran
in Des Moines; from som:
police officers in St. Louis;
from a truck driver on aj
Michigan interstate high-
way; from sheriff's depu-
ties in Toledo, Ohio; from a
farmer in Upper Sandusky, |
Ohio; from a housewife “|

from Ohio into Pennsylvania.

Hundreds of persons in beth
states reported seeing the
“brilliant and shiny” object
early Sunday morning.

Police Chief Gerald Buchert
of Mantua, about eight miles
north of Ravenna, said he took
a picture of the object from

McComb, Miss: a news his front yard but the air force

man at Tomah, Wis,; and a
man at Bangor, Maine, who,

took a potshot at his object. eos aoe See et

gether.”

Buchert said it looked ‘ty

told him not to'release it. -

oung boys at 8:20. He sight-
ed an object moving southward
im the sky.

“I saw it first at 8:20 travel-

T ever want to be again,” said jing at an enormous rate of
a deputy sheriff who chased speed almost directly south.
an unidentified flying object Then it swooped back up

northward and never moved
for an hour.”

Mr. Dayus said “it was a
mass of red and blue lights
iflashing off and on. It was no
plane. There wasn't any
sound.”

A neighbor, Harold J. Ken-
medy, of 550 Kingsway Drive,
said he saw it around 9 p.m.
and “it was sitting low in the
northern sky.” By 10 p.m. the
object was higher and further
to the south, in a stationary

A star - like object coasted
across the sky over Sarnia

| last night and stopped in the
| northeast where it remained

for more than two hours.

To the naked eye the ob-
ject appeared as a very
bright st-r except that red
and blue flashes could be
seen.

Sarnia police received sev-
eral calls, beginning about
7:80 p.m. The object was first
seen in the northwest,

It appeared to be about 70
degrees above the horizon.

People clustered on street
corners to point at and dis-
cuss the object, Opinions. on
what people ‘Saw varied.

Cpl. Robert Symington, of
the Sarnia police department,
said “I saw it but I don't be-
lieve anything until it’s prov-
en to me.”

The object seemed to bob
and weave slightly like an or-
nament on a Christmas tree,

The sighting followed a sim-
ilar experience Sunday night
by about 100 residents of Ket-
tle Point who watched an ob-
ject glow red, blue, green and
white for more than two
hours.

mn
o
pa
al
1) 1 1 : :
b [=] 1 1 tu a a Sed ate y 5 ‘ 4
= bol) ed “a ra a An unidentified flying ob- Woodstock. The mysterious some were travelling slowly jet planes carrying the usual is far more advanced than Ontario sightings came from . Thorndale, a mother and her
i @ Le} <q ss Owed fe) i © Bs ject wits tracked briefly on objects came in a variety of with intermittent bursts of red and green running lights anything we have and is con- London and Sarnia. two children saw a white light,
= wn o O10 0 PODS. Pa ¢ fad g hed = x =| radar by a US. Air Force forms, according to their ob- and leaving white vapor trolled by a superior civiliza- yrs. J, Fielding, of 1025 Ox- “duite high in the sky, that
tal z o ee Es C= 20 =} flo 8 MIM a : a base in Michigan ‘last night, servers. ‘A spokesman at the US. trails. tion,” he told a press confer- org st, §, London, reported seemed to be blinking.”
< re on pa ee pale ?+ ane ¢ a, 7 Wr o g a and a multitute of new sight- There was an orange one at Air Force base in Selfridge, | Maj. Donald E. Keyhoe, the ence. aati a White! ght Ga Lk YE. Haynes, of ine
Pat Oo o FI e g ooH# ie o) OH Bis = -|o o no ie ings were reported by Western Sarnia. And another giving off Mich, said one was tracked Marine officer who advanced “These things are real and Northeast sky, headed toward tore, said “there was no sound er woman reported the
Nod a uo > 00 8 vie u 7, os or ° S n = 5 for re) © 3 Ontario residents. red, white and blue flashes. briefly on radar, but could the outer-space-spy-in-the-sky under intelligent control,” he Siratford at 7:25 pan aud We Watched A for 36 hovered over Hutton
Z, od ov oO Olp a3 Q (3) o| % + oO Oo oO Qi.s a Cad a, od A retired U.S. Marine Corps There was a red one in Lon- not say what it was. theory on behalf of the Na- added. He urged the air force zee Ghat ‘atvway “Ik. ead Sideroad in London for more
5 g_ oH ras oy) 583] 30 cs OU, ats O major said yesterday “there is don that had a pulsating white — Some observers said their tional Investigations Commit- to “end the secrecy on sight- _A Thorndale “area man, . Minutes, anyway, It would | fo) oh pone, She eaid it
° i >a ond ce} substantial evidence” that halo. The one at Kintore was sightings lasted yfor about tee on Aerial Phenomena, ings and stop ridiculing the Floyd Baxter, at 7:40 reported ti il ata was @ i
n 3.80 Wn 3 A *: og On * a, P ng : deat red light, high in the
W oH oO ° ° ‘4 they are observation devices a bright white light that in- seven minutes, Other reported called on. the U.S. Government - competent witnesses” who have seeing an orange and yellow : sky, around hite
« ao] B] a = G4 ai G ss ‘i ‘ Y, which a w
Ce] aA 3 4'0 o tl va > = n pa} fe) rr} “controlled by a superior civ- termittently faded to dull red. keeping the object in sight for yesterday to release all the seen them. light moving very slowly to “It was moving ever s0 slow- ring seemed to spread out,
Pe: < No al O's T G Aon} as]a o [2] ¢ “4 ilization.” Some of them were high- up to two hours. information it has on UFO  Keyhoe, who has written the northeast. He estimated it ly,” she added. then pull baak, intermittent-
[ea] [o) ae | = Sightings of the objects tailing it through the sky like The Free Press sent five sightings. several. books on the subject to be more than 1,000 feet Her daughter, Wendy, 15- ly. .
@ on fA Le} | Deo he u ball (Ee) § S were reported last night over mad and some of them were men out Martian-hunting, two : ss
= bal is} Hilo is} ae J (0) O}-a : oO Q
» O n n o
= fy | Boo gs B40 3m 3|@ :
b> 8 OF bi > ah | 3m 3,)8 oS
aa 4 qa — > O oO i}
f& %o| Qlmp Y fz, @ e) 8 8 g
hed a 3 g TH Oa SIADS OIE GSO
oO er age 2 § agate uw = = Lee Q
— —

in rural areas and cities |
alike.

POLICE CHIEF 'CONVINCED THEY SAW SOMETHING

Six Teens Tell of ‘Chase’ by Buzzing, Lighted UFOs

By ROBERT KISTLER

position.

?

*#THE DENVER POST Friday, April8, 1966 3

Ch: Chief
F.Stranges| Ch

SATURDAY, JULY 9,
ge Van Tassel] Ch
Gabe Green| Ch

DINNER

The group was sitting around a fire they’d built inside man, who might’ve been wearing a raincoat,” dart through

DANIEL W.
"The White Sands

Incident"

Ch

Mel Noel

CALVIN GIRVIN
George Van Tassel

Laura Mundo
George King

Geor

GEORGE Van TASSEL | Chief Standing Horse
ten questions answered] answered by today's
ate Flying Saucer Movement speakers and

The Promise for Tom4 Saucers"
Extraterrestrial Space+4 Places"
Men

"From Earth to Alpha
morrow''Ch

"IT Was Teleported Into
A Flying Saucer"

"I Was an Agent for th
"Abundant New World:
"Spaceship Contact at

by Main Hall speakers.

Giant Rock"

HANNO MAYBERRY
Ch

"Message From

Triangulum"
"2 Hours Aboard an

HAL WILCOX
Centauri"'
Standin
CARL ANDERSON
Ch:
DR.
GABRIEL GREEN
SIDNEY PADRICK
ship'' Ch: H.

|| MOLLIE THOMPSON
COLOR MOVIE:
"We Have Seen The
Saucers"
Ch
Question Period
Chairman
their information.

Ch
Taped space songs by Bob Marcus.

I MAIN HALL

books, & literature on disp

I
15)

WA

Saucer Researchers
AFSCA HEADQUARTERS

"Some-

15-7:

Bee
o
Ee
<
Pagfro
=)
”n
e
a
UO
Bhan
i)
U
a)
©
7)
D
—
=
ihe
a)
o
hes
©
=
bs]
—
As]
E
<

H.Menger
Hal Wilcox

Exhibits

GOLD ROOM
personalities.
Hanno Mayberry
Wayne Aho
Written questions
Michael Barton

1966
Ch.Standing Horse

"Contact With a7 Foot

HANNO MAYBERRY
Tall Spaceman"
Responsibility to Hu-
MICHAEL BARTON
"Flying Saucer Slide
Photos"

"Concret Evidence"
Gold Room speakers.

Gh

"Starcraft Contact"
Ch

Space Tapes(6
LAURA MUNDO
manity'' Ch
Chairman

Gh

Denver Post Staff Writer

Six picnicking Denver teen-agers reported Thursday
night they were chased for an hour by unidentified flying
objects in Daniels Park south of Denver in Douglas County.

The high school students—three boys, three girls—told
Police Chief John C. Maclvor of Littleton they witnessed un-
explained, apparently “hovering” red, blue and white lights
Accompanied by a series of pulsating buzzing sounds which
began about 9:30 p.m.

‘The teen-agers, all 17, who described what they saw
hesitantly, were described by Maclvor as being “sincere,
‘cold sober and a little shaken by what they saw.”

a ‘The group appeared at Maclvor’s office shortly before
p.m.

. _ “I was real skeptical at first,” Maclvor said. “But each

‘of the kids called their parents—who knew they'd been pic-

nicking—to tell them where they were.

“T don’t know what they saw,” he said, “but I’m con-
vinced they saw something.”

Alan Scrivner, son of Mr. and Mrs. Russell Scrivner of
1040 Jackson St., a junior at East High School, gave the
following account:

Scrivner and five friends drove to Daniels Park, 10-12
miles southeast of Littleton, about 6:30 p.m. They parked the
car and walked about a city block down a small incline and
up again to a stone shelter built in the side of a hill.

when they heard “what sounded like a man walking on top
of the shelter.” The roof can easily be reached on foot from
the slanting hillside.

Scrivner and Don Otis, an East High junior, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Elmo Otis, 1939 Fairfax St., stood on top of the shelter
and shined a flashlight inte the surrounding area. They
saw nothing.

The two—leaving the others behind in the shelter—made
their way through the underbrush back to the road. “I
thought someone was messing around my ear,” Scrivner
said.

“Just as we got to the car,” he said, “both of us heard
areal weird buzzing noise. It seemed to be all around us.”

As they reached the car, the youths saw “two red lights
—about a foot each in diameter—about two feet off the
ground and parallel to each other.” There was a white light
in the center of the reds.

The lights, about 20 feet apart, appeared to be in a field
on the far side of the road “about 25 yards” from the
car. The two, thinking “it might be two parked cars or
something,” crouched in the ditch and waited.

About three minutes later, they again approached the
car. They saw and heard nothing. They returned to the
shelter.

The four in the shelter said that, while the two had
been gone, they’d heard the same “footstep-like”” sound on
the roof again. Two of the girls said they'd also seen a “tall

the light showing through the window into the area, They
also said they heard his footsteps.

The group decided to leave.

As they were walking back to the car, Otis turned and
saw “a real bright flash behind the hill over the shelter
and it lit up the whole area.”

Buzzing. ‘All Around’

The ominous buzzing began again. No direction, “just
all around — never heard anything like it in my life,”
Scrivner said. Shortly afterward as the group neared the
car, they all agreed they saw the same thing:

Two blue lights hovering low in the sky, about three-
quarters of a mile away. The lights were stationary and
went from bright to dim. A third — white — light appeared
to rise up and down between the blues and “lit up the
area.”

No outline —other than the lights—was visible.

They perched atop the car’s hood and watched the blue
and white lights “off and on” for about a half hour. The
lights appeared in back of the shelter — in the opposite di-
rection from the first lights seen in the field.

Twenty minutes after the blues appeared, another set—
these, blues with a bright red in the center — appeared “off
to the left of the others and about a block away.” These
hovered near the ground. The buzzing continued,

clear beneath the clouds where the lights were.” As the third
set of lights hovered, the youths agreed they could see a dark
outline between the lights. \

“Tt looked Jike.a black football—the blue lights on each
end — with an orange on top, like a bubble. The red light
was at the bottom. It didn’t move up and own, but did cast
a beam of light at the ground,” Scrivner said.

*Car Didn't Work Right'

The youngsters piled in the car — a 1954 Ford — and
started out of the park.

“You'll all think we're nuts,” Scrivner said later, ‘but
my car didn’t work right. I could get it up to about 30 (miles
an hour) then it would cut out like someone turned the
ignition off. Then it would start up again.”

Scrivner also complained that the radio was “playing
nothing but static’ while they left the immediate area of the
shelter.

As they drove off, two of the girls and Otis saw what
appeared to be a “large, oval circle of light — it covered
the whole road — following the car.””

Mary Zolar, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Jack A. Zolar,
945 Fairfax St., a senior at East, was in the back seat with
two others.

“It was huge and glowing,” she said, “and came right
up to the back of the car, then went out. It lasted about
three seconds.”

As the car left the park area, it quit “missing out” and

The night was overcast with no stars visible but “real

| the radio played normally, Scrivner said.
Called Sheriff's Office

The youths stopped at a service station and called the
Arapahoe County sheriff's office, then went to Maclvor’s
office.

Maclvor said “‘one of the impressive things about their
\story” was all six didn’t claim to have seen the exact same
thing at the same time.

“And a couple of them are real shook up,” he added.

The operations officer at Lowry Air Force Base said
early Friday he’d received a call apparently from the Arap-
Pier ane rary cl , Teporting the sightings.

r et ers @ group were Michael Simington, son of Mr.
1 Dale uate eid ber oma bia and Mrs. James E. Simington, 773 Jackso nSt., a junior at
partner, W. L, Neff, tewere East Patty Retherford, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Neal Reth-
close” to the object in separate (ford, 742 Harrison St., a junior at Mapleton, High School,
cars and chased it 86 miles for and Kaye Hurley, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ltoyd Hurley,
an hour and a half, from near 5736 Montview Blvd., a junior at Machebeuf High School.
Ravenna to Conway, Pa,, near Two other UFO sightings were reported in the state, one
Pittsburgh. Tree in Delta and the other in Denver.

Spaur said he clocked it at Delta Police Chief D. C. Morgan, patrolman Earnest
speeds up to 103 miles per hour, Markley and reporter Don Prather of the Delta Independent
From the ground Spaur said it|Watched an object which was “glowing, green in color and
looked like the head of a flash- Very bright.”” The men observed it for almost two hours be-
light, about 40 feet wide and 18 fore it disappeared by “rising straight up.”
feet high, In Denver, Terry Datz, 19,"a University of Denver stu-

Spaur said the lines ofthe ob- dent, said he and Dennis Sullivan of Mt. Vernon, N. Y.,
ject were very distinct, “Some- ‘Sighted about seven UFOs which appeared “garbage can lid
body had control over it,’? he size.”
said, ‘It wasn’t just floating The students said the objects disappeared into the clouds
5 around, It can maneuver.’? after about 10 minutes. .

Spokane Daily Chronicle, Saturday, April 2, 1968. | Super-Space World
Since December _ Sought By Soviets

altel atin tnt d
ea 4 4
Ar UFO Buffs Report MOSCOW — (Reuters) —,necessary to look for extrater- | t Sa
i shu saprmenry undeterred by|restrial civilizations,” said Ac- ose O ucer
estern skepticism, believe it is| ademician Vladimir Kotelnikov,| rr
Skies Clear of Saucers possible that a super-civilization| 58, a veteran radio engineer. 1 RAVENNA, Oblo (AP) = ‘We
; exists in space and is trying to| The Russians say it’s time(“¢T@ Close, closer than I ever
Recent sightings in other sec-jsouth of Spokane at Christmas| |make contact with earth. earthmen started investigating/¥@nt to be again,” said a depu-
tions of the country have stimu-|time, but no subsequent sightings||| Because of Moscow's refusal] Whether there may be sistertY Sheriff who chased an un-
agterarbes = eee fy rs pean sree ee aol to abandon\hope, a new contro-|Civilizations in space. Three/dentified flying object from
pa pency aig basa orien an oom versy may be started in world| months ago’a group of Soviet/Ohio into Pennsylvania,
in this locality since Decmeber. Blue Streak Seen \\astronomy circles. astronomers suggested a world-| Hundreds of persons in both
That was reported today by| she said the object was seen Western experts scoffed a}Wide research program. states reported seeing the
Mrs. Jack A. Campbell, Route 3,/as a streak of blue, which/|7°2" ago when a young Russian} Last April, Kardashev, 34,‘brilliant and shiny’? object
director of the Spokane unit of flashed straight across the sky astronomer, Nikolai Kardashev,|tuned his sensitive radio-tele-jearly Sunday morning,
the Amalgamated Flying Saucer] in the vicinity of Browne's Moun- jclaimed he heard strange sig-|scope to CTA-102, a quasi-stellar} Police Chief Gerald Bucert
Clubs of America. tain, southeast of the city. Mrs.| nals from space and speculated|radio source originally dis-iog Mantua, about eight miles
Mrs. Campbell said there is|Campbell said it could not have||they might have come from alcovered by the Mount Wilson-lorsn of Ravenna, said he took
going to be a regional convention|been a falling meteor or similar) |™2"-made radio source Palomar Observatory in Pasa-|, lctuie of the object fron his
of the flying saucer clubs in'Spo-|object, as its movement was|| A popular science magazine| dena, Calif. ebaaige
kane in early summer, and a/horizontal rather than vertical. then polled eight leading Soviet] The scientist said the signals/ffont yard but the Air Force
lecture by a Seattle authority on| The Amalgamated Flying Sau-||| scientists to find out what they|/he picked up were 1,000,000told him not to release it,
unidentified flying objects is|cer Clubs of America is a non-||| think times stronger than previous)
scheduled by the local unit/profit organization conducting)| Friday, ‘““Technika Molodezhi”|earthbound radio emissions. }
April 9. research and investigation into||(Young Techniques) reported] “There are a mimber of!
Mrs. Campbell~said she was/the subject of flying saucers, in-||that no one is prepared to rule|elements which do not contra-|
among several Spokane persons terplanetary travel and commu-||| out the possibility. dict the theory that there is
who saw’ such a flying objectinication and related subjects. it “I agree completely that it is| another civilization,” he said.
oo ¥

In the American tradition

GABRIEL GREEN,
of freedom of information and ideas, AFSCA provides

Dr. Frank E., Stranges.

Air
Green

Deputy Gets Too

Mel Noel

HOPE TROXELL

(

"Investi-

Dan Fry
gating Flying Saucers

DINNER
G.

& saucer movement

00 }WAYNE AHO
Sid Padrick ] Ch:

10 | Question Period. Writ-

FRIDAY, JULY 8,
MAIN HALL
REGISTRATION:

l1OAMJINVOCATION:

Buchert said it looked like
“two table saucers put togeth- |

30PM LUNCH {Space Tapes(

Chief Standing Horse
"My 4 Day Trip to

Michael Barton
MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs)

Gabriel Green

Orfeo Angelucci

JULY 8,9,10, 1966

0OPM

DR. DANIEL W. FRY | ORFEO ANGELUCCI

"The Curve of Devel-

00 |opment"

DR.FRANK STRANGES| MARIANNE FRANCIS
ten questions answeredj answered by today's

MOLLIE THOMPSON (Space Age Songs)

"Journey to the Moon"
Chairman: Hal Wilcox

"Secrecy Must Go---
Mars, Venus,Clarion,
"A Space Beings Visit
to the Pentagon!"

11:50 | People Must Know!'"'
"Evolved Man of the

Stare"

Keynote Address:

& Orion'' Ch
HOWARD MENGER
Chairman:

WESLEY BATEMAN
"Flying Saucer
Propulsion'' (Slides)
Ch: Sid Padrick
MEL NOEL

Inside the U.S.
Force'' Ch
Chairman

Ch
50AM to l
Ch
Ch

THIRD NATIONAL CONVENTION
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, contact

10:50|thing Big Is Happening''. Introduction of

to
10:

The appearance of the speakers on our program does you with an opportunity to hear and to evalu-

not constitute an endorsement by AFSCA of their in-

11:00 | by Main Hall speakers,

formation or viewpoints.

5:30 to 7

i)
a
&

fi
ay
9:10
10

AFSCA

WAYNE S. AHO; The New Age Foundation, Inc. ;
8 Smith St.; Seattle, Wash. 98109.

Publish: ''The Aquarian Dawn"! (Donation basis).
CARL A. ANDERSON;
2522 E, Pearson Ave.;
ORFEO ANGELUCCI;
4160 Verdugo Road; Los Angeles, Calif. 90065.
MICHAEL "X'' BARTON; Futura Press;

5949 Gregory Ave.; Hollywood, Calif. 90038.
Phone: 464-0441.

WESLEY BATEMAN; Mental Investigations of New
Dimensions (M.I.N.D.); 4916 Franklin Ave.;
Hollywood, Calif. 90027. Phone: 661-1731.

SPEAKERS

JOHANNES 'HANNO'! MAYBERRY;

Unified Research Center, Inc; _

P.O. Box 764; Selma, Oregon 97538.
HOWARD MENGER;

202 Schumann Drive; Sebastian, Florida 32958.
LAURA MUNDO; The Interplanetary Center;
27359 Cranford Lane; Dearborn Heights, Mich.
48127. Publish: ''The Interplanetary News" (Free).
MEL NOEL;

2760 Hollyridge Drive; Hollywood, Calif. 90028.
SIDNEY PADRICK;

196 Hidden Valley Road; Watsonville, Calif.
CHIEF FRANK B. STANDING HORSE;

CONVENTION
ld;

Citizen-News}
Thursday, April 7, 1960 |

Planet Pluto

‘Saucers Seen,
Talked With?

By AUSTIN CONOVER
SUNSET STRIP—The invitation to the press read:|
“Several persons who have been contacted by messen-|
gers from outer space will be available Wednesday for
interviews at 9000 Sunset Blvd.” The “several” at the|
|headquarters of World Harmony, Inc., turned out to be|
Cae ball anita worth ef Bloom [2/2 led by Estelle C. Prins, president, who said she}

ingdale, Dickerson told Melvin, has not only sighted flying saucers but also communi-
who was driving, to stop the " sm [rated with the “humans” in-

bem | | | side them, |
The boys said they observed

an object off to their right over

a swamp, hovering in the air.

They estimated the distance at

‘Object In|

Would You Believe—‘Sauecer’ Visits Wichita?

He said his mother said it might be the
Air Force “playing a trick.”

None of the neighbors reported any-
thing unusual when told of the saucers
landing, and the police dispatcher said
they had had no reports.

HOWEVER, JOHNNY and his mother

did point out something unusual. Along
the driveway lay pieces of concrete that
once served as a reinforcement sheet
along the house’s foundation.

Mrs. Thomas said she never noticed
it breaking off until Friday. Pieces were
scattered into the driveway.

Also, sand had swirled into the drive-
way area,
Johnny said he was not anxious te

Sky Near
om)
crieeaerms {Bloom’dale

if somebody was in one . . . that they ; .
would be friendly. Latest ‘Flying
—_— Saucer’ Report |
BLOOMINGDALE—Two |

By FRAN KENTLING
Beacon Staff Writer

An 11-year-old Wichita boy has joined
the ranks of those across the nation who
have reported seeing “flying saucers”
during the past week.

Johnny Sparks said that early Friday
morning he saw two “flying saucers”
that made a humming noise and were
bigger than cars, He is the son of Mr.
and Mrs. Calvin Coolidge Thomas, 916
N. Topeka.

Here is the story the way he told it:

“I had been upstairs to my mother's
room and then I heard this funny noise.

“It went mmmmmmm—tike a flying
top. I started to go back to bed when
I heard it. Then I looked out the window

and I saw it,
“1 saw this flying object that people
have been talking about. It had colored
lights and was spinning.
“It was bigger than a car and the
colors were purple and red and orange

When it started leaving I covered up
my head.”

WHEN CONTACTED at the home,
Mrs. Thomas said that about 5 a.m. Fri-
day Johnny came running up to her
room nearly hysterical.

“He was crying that he had seen two
flying saucers,” she recalled.

Ironically, Mrs. Thomas said after-
wards, she had been dreaming of flying
saucers and possibly heard the hum-
ming noise herself.

She said Johnny had told her that at
first he thought a big diesel truck was
pulling into the driveway, but then the
humming noise started. "

Johnny said he didn’t know about the
saucer activity in Michigan last Sunday
until after he told a neighbor about his
nighttime vision. The Michigan report
was attributed to swamp gases by an
Air Force investigator.

12s

3

The Wichita Beacon |. _
Saturday, March 26, 1966

Fullerton, Calif.

Bloomingdale youths reported’
last night to Van Buren county
sheriff's deputies the sighting of
an unidentified flying object
north of this village.

Doug Dickerson, 17, and
James Melvin, also 17, said
they were going north on the
Bloomingdale-Allegan road
about 9 p.m. In the vicinity of
the Bill Petrick farm, three and

13.

14,

Tis

JOHNNY SAID HIS saucers landed
on a driveway on the north side of the
house—nowhere near a swamp,

Johnny evidently had spent a fitful
night because of an earache that kept

She made it clear-at the out-
*|set that UFO (unidentified fly-
ing object) is not the right way
to refer to the objects she has

16.

i fro ds the
Me ec da daa id Oe oe ee a j|fred, ad’ see eaheer oe [zoe echt se bn ywood, Calif. ANK_ 4 e:
up in the sky- Then T saw them laying D&ViOK a bad dream, Johnny replied: “1 Eee ene ere | |longer unidentified.” | Publish: "Prism!" (12 issues-$3.00). AFSCA Unit #9; Rt. 2, Box 194, (27401 Hwy. 74);
"eit dt lak the it had any windows Shed 090 79, a had | bottom and Fumie tap <N ars goer ae ico xsl 6. MARIANNE FRANCIS; Solar Light Center; Perris, Calif. 92370. Phone: 657-2873.
ded Ii 5 it m8 ‘a °, sucl all cut in half. | ” ‘it } r
sare landing ad legs and put them Sre"yhan' ime € cover up before 1 =| herewere tre gts on te | Sa dee a doer Rt. 2, Box 572-C; Central Point, Oregon 97501. 17. DR. FRANK E, STRANGES;
on the ground. object, they said.

‘We know that they come to
warn us against the spread of
the contagion of war to outer!
space. f

“Like the star that guided the|

The boy estimated that each saucer
stayed about five minutes, and his story
did not vary with each repeated telling.

MRS. THOMAS ADMITTED she was a
little embarrassed about the sighting,

They described the lights as
being one red light on each end
of the object, which kept blink-
ing off and on, and one yellow
light in the center of the object

“The top part spun, but the rest didn’t
It was like a big fat doughnut. The top
had something like a cap that kept going
round and round

“The second one looked just like the

International Evangelism Crusades, Inc.;
P.O, Box 2523: Venice, ‘Calif.;.90293:

Publish: "Starcraft"! (4 issues-$2.00).
DR. DANIEL W. FRY; Understanding, Inc.;

“4 ; hich remained steady. . : .
first one. One came down and the other but she did not doubt the boy's story. Btatt Photo by Maroié Le * alc stan | wise men at the time of the Pp : (6) 18. MOLLIE THOMPSON
came up. The olher one just sat and Johnny said he never thought. there Mrs. Thomas and Johnny examined “flying saucer damage.” sitect, Ee abe oon ine birth of Jesus, fying saucers .O, Box 105; Merlin, Oregon 97532. 3

spun, too.

“Twas too scared to wake anyone up.
THE MONTREAL STAR, MONDAY, APRIJ. 4, 1966

H H Boy Is Burned
ighting Reported Here oy Is burne
: \ B Fl Shi 9 with “people from the planet) |
i | She parted with the informa-
HAMILTON, Ont, “Apli’ 2A 13yearold Hamilton| || yl ng aucers, Keay tg ying saucer pe
| Poy has a curved burn on his hand he claims came from ruc aa e-eviles long ant thatl

e
touching the “antenna” of a soft-glowing “flying ship.” | U ke L

was anything like flying saucers “until

1 them.”” are trying to guide mankind to-
saw them.

ward universal peace and har-
mony.”

Linton, Astley Bank, Darwen, Lancs., England.
HOPE TROXELL; School of Thought;
P.O. Box 458; Independence, Calif.
GEORGE W. VAN TASSEL;

Ministry of Universal Wisdom, Inc.j;—~—*"
P,O. Box 458; Yucca Valley, Calif. 9224.
Publish: ''Proceedings'' (Donation basis).
HAL WILCOX;

when it suddenly went straight
up oo terrific speed. They said
it did not seem to go in any |
direction but up, until they lost ESTELLE C. PRINS
sight of it. i « . talks to space men

Publish: ''Understanding" (12 issues-$2.50).
CALVIN C. GIRVIN;

6711 Yucca St.; Hollywood, Calif. 90028.
GABRIEL GREEN; Amalgamated Flying Saucer
Clubs of America, Inc.; 2004 .N: Hoover St.;
Los Angeles, Calif. 90027. Phone: 662-4404.
Publish: ''Flying Saucers International"!

(6 issues-$3.00).

Concrete reinforcement sheeting was broken, sand swirled.

19.

OT eee

Miss Prins said that space!
|people have communicated with!
|her in the English language j
‘though a bit haltingly” and that) |
lone such communication was|

—

93526.
20.

Citizen News
6-14-66

| |THOSE SPACE PEOPLE!
Not a Star - - Not an Aircraft, Says | |

jtovis S. Smith Family of North Bend

The Louis S. Smiths, who live
jon the CCC road, spent an in-

culars,
Charles Cozens claims two

fd

“It appeared to be traveling

tify except as an Unidentified
Flying Object.

It was first seen by Phil, 15,
a freshman at Mount Si, about
10 p.m, “I was out walking the
dog, and the first thing that at-
|tracted me were the bright
lights. I knew it couldn't be a
star, Then I realized it was mov-

Diana, 18, a Mount Si senior.
| They all ran outside and all re-
port sighting the strange object.

Phil used a telescope (30
power) on a tripod and said he
had a fairly, good view of it. His
father said he was unable to see

Phil described it as somewhat
saucer-like in shape (see his
sketch) and of a blue-grayish
color in the moonlight. He said
the band around the center was
brilliantly lighted. .

Mr. Smith agreed on the bril-
liance of the lighting but said}
he was unsure whether the cen-|

were they were very bright and|

seemed to radiate from that area
on the object,” he said.

He was reluctant to guess how
far away it was. “I had some
Pilot training during the war,
and I know how hard it is to
estimate distances but I felt it

SAUCER SHAPE. This is a rough sketch by Phil Smith, 15, of the
tified Flying Object watched by Phil, his father and mother,
er for about 10 minutes the evening of April 7. The
band in the center (resembling windows) gave out the bright

Uni

lights which first attracted Phil’s attention.

reasonably accurate,
“Th

lights. But now and then it would | not
move rapidly to the left, then
just as swiftly to the right and

seem to tilt a little which
lowed us to s its
shape,” he exp!

ined.
| All the Smiths are sure it was
|not a heavenly body, nor an air-

were times when it ap-

general

alarmed, only

sighting of

ject, an airplane flew overhead.
All agreed that the object they

interested.
| They said they had heard no re-
ports to indicate that any of their
neighbors shared the experience.

Both Mr. and Mrs. Smith said
they had been somewhat skepti-
cal of the many reports of the
such objects. No

Constable Arnold Pead, sum-
moned to the home after the
parents repeatedly questioned

| their son before reporting the
incident, verified the three-
inch, yellowish burn mark on
the boy’s hand.

Charles said he ran behind
a fence after seeing one “ship”
land, closely followed by an-

ind three feet ‘high with red,
blue and green lights set into
the rim and flickering like a
computer.”

The boy said the objects
made a buzzing sound and “lit
up the grass around.”

Only one had an antenna, he
said, “It was thicker at the

CHARLES COZENS

|tie and could not be shaken.”
| Last Wednesday Laverne

flying. saucers, a spokesman for
Mental Investigations of New
Dimensions declared today in
jan exclusive interview.
Wesley H. Bateman’ of 4916
Franklin Ave., which is’ the
international headquarters ‘of
|MIND, reported: "Our research
reveals not only a pattern of
flying saucer sightings after

terest of flying saucer ‘people in
|the shock waves.
“First, let me point’ out ‘that
at the beginning of March, 1966,
the Russians detonated the larg-
est underground nuclear explo-
sion ever, Since this detonation,
there's been a rash of earth-

thought of. one,“ also its size,
color and shape, to a receptive
mind.”

Age of Achievement
Bateman Went-on t6 éxplain
that the reason for many of the
|flying saucer sightings taking
place in swamp lands is be-
[cause “the’inhabltants of these

As for the future, he pre-
dicted that within less than five
years man will free himself. of|
ithe frequency barrier and enter)
an age of tremendous intellec-
‘tual achievement.

{hills as well as elsewhere.

Gabriel Green, who said he
jhas made between 85 and 100
{such sightings since 1956, scored
jthe Air Force and other investi-|
|gators who have looked into the|
|matter. “They are nothing more!
|than official debunkers,”” he|
said. “They are trying to hide|

generation is not so inclined to
|debunk flying saucers, The ‘re-
‘sponse I've received at the Teen)
|Fair shows me youth is far
ahead of most adults on  this|

| matter.”

| Quest for Truth

Publish: ''The Aetherius Society Newsletter"!
(Donation basis). Phone: 465-9652.

SPACE AGE

THE COCKEYED BALLAD

There's a cockeyed feeling in the world today
That power politics is here to stay.
But China, Russia and the U.S.A.

|| teresting 10 minutes or so Thurs-|from north to south,” Phil said, strange “ships” landed in a o |

| di ing, April 7, as they| 7 Gd field behind the Hamilto By AUSTIN CONOVER Thoughts need not be | |B Purposes near Earth. as = SSN is ENGL PR tak -9 ea A

used binocitars and ‘telescope |\agrmety ata mane oe 8 Mountain pale wtation “on scOLLYWOOD — There i am words For instance In Hollywood Hills 10. DR. GEORGE KING; The Aetherius Society; Institute of Parapsychology;

5 teh hing i the se r Wellington Stre - lefinite correlation , bets necessary jow the word f : i

which they were unable to inden | Rigo." Ramos say niet earthquakes and sigitings f[Pencl (0 communiche the| _|nying saucers the Holpwocd 6202 Afton Place; Hollywood, Calif. 90028. 871 Gower St.; Hollywood, Calif. 90038.

Phone: 469-5438.

SONGS by Mollie Thompson

\ ing.” ter band was illuminated by ed to be moving in a straight| were watching was much larger. | other. ‘ space crafts have been inter-| [from our citizens the fact there|
Phil ran in the house and|bright lights or whether they|line and then: you couldn't see| They watched until the object |. He described the objects as rndertround. “nuciers “aomces (etm studying the frequency!  Jare extraterrestrial people. | SPACE- TALK
called his parents and his sister,|Were flames — “whatever they|™Uch shape, just the band of| moved out of range, They were Sips tod lon, font tant wie but also the reason for the in-| "As for the frre gees “Fortunately, the younger

The powers that be will tell us we're alone.
They'll tell us that in space we are unique;
On this little desert island we call Earth

Boy—don't let them fool you!
Take a look at this world of ours,
Just one mud ball in the sea of stars.
Other planets have no color-bars,

through the telescope: “Every
time I tried it the object would
jMove where a tree blocked my
vision.” But he, Diana, and Mrs,
Smith took turns with the bino-

plane, more — they don't know what it
was, but they know they saw
something very strange in the
|friendly skies that Thursday
night, |

| Maria Graciette Elliott, ac-
jtress and author, described in}
detail the flying saucer “fireball|
with a sulfur smell” that she|
sighted in Georgia. Lillian Wil-
jlers, executive director of Hai
mony House, cited her interest
in flying saucers as part of *
t

base and narrowed to the size|Emery, 18, and his brother

of a nickle at the top.’ \Owen, 14, reported seeing two

When he touched tthe anten-| objects flying low over the city.

na, a flash “of electricity” oc-| Mr. Emery, an engineer, said

curred, and he received a shock, his sons were “extremely shaken
His father, James Cozens, alup by what they had seen.”

| draughtsman, said he explained| They said the objects made “a

the seriousness of calling the\whirring noise, not at all like

an aircrai

quakes, They've occurred in
‘Turkey, China, Formosa, Japan,
‘Spain, Africa, Yugoslavia and
Russia as well as in the United

States.

Quotes Scripture
“During this same period,
there have been many flying

jwas quite a way from us,” he} «tt was much bigger than nor-
said. | mal aircraft,” Mr. Smith said.
He agreed that his son's sketch] They had an easy comparison

of the shape of the object was| While they were watching the ob-

The human race is just a kind of freak.
When we send our envoys into space
There'll be a smile upon this planet's face,

St. Petersburg Times, April 26, 1966

‘Mysterious UFO’

— | police “but Charles was emph

BRILLIANTLY LIGHTED

saucer sightings. The majority
have been on or near the. 40th

long range quest {

"Cause they've got perspective.

‘Cause brother, right out there—I'm telling you,
There's another human race; it's very true!

| . ey WE B parallel inthe Northern Hem eNuaee ee Yanks and Ruskies put men into space,
Escorts Burns Plane | Police Follow pated os ‘The Thing’ Sets Britons eatenan, ate ree Visible Again But it's all a mad politician's race, They're a very, very peaceful crowd,

Times Staff Writer | 4-18-66 San Diego Union . Seana i ited Bibl : . A * : :
* 2a ABOARD THE BURNS CON: S 85 Mi | S culatin An references to sightings following Lights in Sky Z| One-up-manship in this Year of Grace. For they just never go to war.
Meteorite —_|var — ies sem s tong pout aucer Hes pe g ew fa extheake opel te tracted attention of residents of It makes you giggle. And they cannot interfere,
cal campaign but last night Hong Kong, Aci 66l bedi ibe prot oe SS cqamnaniting to eke oem ¥ g y
Gov. Haydon Burns, four cyni- FREEDOM, Pa. (UPI) — | aboi i i Bs S-41~06} “shinis A "e i back again last night) j j | i
Flares Over (ene Burs|| | Two bilan Mbit lies | batt 38 stories tn the ai, “The, Thing” — or “Things” mith ADE. 10, jie tie wee a 1) ES Coe The population stands and stares, This is by Universal Law.
Northeust i ae al oes ited fing” objets were | shaped “someting Ike ha | today Soh oom Sy cocttion| shent fying object | | More receny, the Alasan| .«- earhguaks, food | MPG Frved/sh sic ave | While men in capsules explore upstairs. The spaceman's message to us all
looked suspiciously like sa un-| away, at Benton Harbor,| Th i “ ie and Dennis Reynicks, 115) . .
NEW YORK (UPD —Atam|lentied fying object eaccrting|| | Mich’ early yesterday." | the ‘jee pets ae The ‘Sunday newspaper ) husband, Tom, told the paver.| odjects We Noe ies! | A Second Se ae eat ea Oe Why we can't even manage our own affairs! Is based on how to banish fear,

ing object — apparently a mete-
orite — swept across the East
Coast sky shortly after dark last
night, touching off thousands of
calls to police, fire stations and
news agencies reporting every-
thing from a plane about to
eras} to “flying saucers.”

‘A spokesman for the Federal

the Burns campaign plane fo:
about 40 miles over Centra, Flor-
ida. ,
The object was first spotted
by co-pilot Herb Bates. He said
he saw the object “when we!
took off from Orlando.” Bates
added “it stayed with us for at
least 40 miles, then it disap-
peared, like he turned off the!

| .,Police alerted by radio to
be on the lookout for an ob-
ject heading their way fol-
lowed the “bright circular”
| object from Atwater, Ohio, to
Freedom, a distance of 85
miles.

Portage County, Ohio, De-
puty Sheriff Dale Spaur, an
Air Force gunner during’ the
Korean War, said the object

the object bayer; - over a
motel to police, who observed |
| as it rose higher in the air. |
In Freedom, Spaur reported |
| the cbject, which had an an-
| tenna-like’ protrusion on its
underside, hovered above the
cruiser in which he and Depu-
| ty W. L. Neff were riding. |
OBJECT WAITS

The Ohio deputy sheriffs |

News of the World — with
a massive circulation of
about 7m — printed pictures
on its front page of an object re~
sembling & spzce craft that it
said was photographed — from
an airliner by @ woman passen-
ger with a standard cine camera
and developed in an ordinary
commercial laboratory.

The woman, Mrs Joan Old-

“Then it pulled in two fins at
the top and then two at the
bottom to go into a flying saucer
type shape. Then it banked
away and disappeared com-
pletely.” ‘

The new reported sighting—
and photographs youched for
by one of the newspaper's
photographers—coincided with
recent fresh reports of uniden-
tified flying objects in the Unit-

Jearthquakes in Spain that year

|were followed by reports of fly-
ling saucers in Portugal.
The researcher offered this
explanation: “Flying saucer’
people are ndt so much con-
cerned about our nuclear test-|
ing or the destructive power of
our earthquakes as about the:
change in the frequency barrier

3-22-66

| UFO Seen
In Michigan

HILLSDALE, Mich. (UPI) —
‘A county civil defense director}
jand 87 co-eds said today they!

| Road in order to get a full view
of the vast Wanaque Reservoir.)

About 10:40 last night, they}
said, a bright point of light ap-
peared to be hovering above the)
ice. As Reynicks prepared to|
photograph it, the light disap-
peared.

But it returned, with a “red-|
dish tinge, bobbing and weav-
ing,” according to Hreno.

—s

Some cheek—colonization!
Besides, they've got people on Venus and Mars.
They got lads and lasses and ma's and pa's.
And they've got better transport than four-wheel cars.
Have you ever seen 'em?

And if we only understand,

We will find it heaven here.
While we must rely on war,
We never will be happy here.
While this world's economy

Aviation Agency at Kennedy In-|;yice, It's the first one I've seen “ y were joined by E: ati field, 38, said she was flying in | ed States and new claims that | |Which is produced by our mag-
ternational Airport said it ap-lin 29 years of flying, | Pspietial dood np mare Paralogs Wane ems Ther tise ay carter at [cone yinings that “as een | |netc field and which is attected| |watehed an eerie, hovering Fagen pee tooruet ‘ . : ‘ h dshi trife and fear
peared the object was a meteor| "Bates resorted the sighting to ter. traveled at speeds | ho suid “phen ie ober nt ru mph obec ar Can | Sted Ry {21 wiineses in the | by earthquakes and. nuclear) ying object sce ina] |i! dtene. drecter, sid bel Those Flying Saucers whisking through our skies Is based on hardship, strife and fear.

moving from south to north. It!
was believed to have landed in
Long Island Sound.

THE SPOKESMAN said the

Capt. Nathan Sharon of the
Florida Highway Patrol. Sharon
went to the cockpit and ob-
served the object and went back

BRIGHT LIGHT

“I had never seen anything
this bright before in my life,”

too far ahead of ‘us it ap
peared to stop and wait.”

| . Deputy Robert Wilson, mon-
| itoring “the calls from the

nock in Staffordshire County 15
days ago when she spotted what
she thought was another plane,
a jetliner.

Past 16 months has been seen
again.

‘Authorities no longer look
fully askance at the Warmins-

explosions.

“This frequency barrier has
hampered man’s mental de-
velopment and his communica-

dormitory Monday night.
William van Horn, 41, Hill-
isdale

County civil defense)

ens of cars ringed the reservoir

last night, their occupants hop-|
ing to see the “object,” first)

Must take some power to make them rise.
But government departments just hide their eyes,

How do they live without a war
In their lands of milk and honey?

i ‘ ted over the reservoir and|
‘ > he said. | crui lett | She said she whipped out her | ter sighting reports, and the | |tion with space le. The director for 10 years, said he| | SP i
tower at Washington airport re-\to tell Gov. Burns. Burns | cruiser, said Spaur and Neff | camera and aimed. Ministi Dete Lenape cole aged tched the unidentifi ject|_|in nearby communities Tuesday
ported seeing. the object dash|looked out the window and then fF rubbish caloches wee | Were, duestoned by an “air | | UHit aemed to ‘hover for three | examined. nexatlves or pletnes | |0%6,32, MANY space people 1/ |watched the unidentified object) |ristt and again yesterday m0r| And call them meteors! They don't need economy,
across the heavens came back and told newsmen| CGY rubbish collectors, watch- | Force colonel” in Freedom, Found our airliner,” ber ‘ of Warminster’s “Thing.” Neorg nt ing. ; ‘- ; ‘
i there’ ae | : ject with one | However, Air Force head- ‘0 tell you how many. : Official explanations, mean- : * s
Pg gap a ae eS a “afuch of our Knowiedge bas| | It was, the second straight! | wile, were lacking. The Ai With all the lies that they print and shout, Because they don't use any money!
rin 3 J rs look straight at it.” h Ai sai * jcome to us from these people;/ jmight a large number of| |Force dismissed the inci Y . . : :
where aircraft Dad — radioed/looked, cut the window of the Joseph Franklin said it was | port om the iu Jand we have little realized the| {witnesses reported seeing weird| {as possible sightings of the| The general public Is got its work cut out— They cannot give us any ships -

seeing the object sweeping. high
through the air.

One pilot said it was a fireball
with a long vapor trail. The
FAA said a vapor trail was un-
usual, but apparently was the|
result of the object getting into

plane and spotted what ap-
peared to be two round spots of
light. At the time the’ plane was
on a northwest course from
Orlando to Tallahassee.

THE LIGHTS were off to the

Monday, Mar.28,1966 = gk

SAUCER BLAST? SIX

Los Angeles Herald-Examiner

5

thought transference. As our;
minds develop, we'll be able to

junidentified flying objects in|
southern Michigan. Sunday
night a dozen policemen and at!

communicate better with them.
Language is not the problem.!

At Pierre

least 40 other persons said they
watched a similar object,
guarded by four sister ships,
land in a swamp about 45 miles

planets Venus and Jupiter. |

3-24-66
BALL OF FIRE
IN HOLLYWOOD

Figuring what it's all about.
But just you keep on trying.
I suppose you know why I'mtelling you this,

So we must try and build our own.
But they are waiting right out there,
Oh, my friends, we're not alone!

northeast of the plane and ap- } . northeast of here near Ann
the earth's lower atmosphere. 4 i« ’ * 3 ?
PA grecr ne agree About the ite Wesel Tia eae TOWNS SEE MYSTERY Sight UFO pArbor, Mich. ' UKE SANGER’ i So you won 't shriek or shake your fist How do they go at such great speed,
ree at § nt , N.C., Marcel ¢ wi oO | ° : * ° . : :
Base, Newburgh, N-Y.,  con-[Sr et 600 tect and at stony 290 fect streaked iow across parts of western Neh Gare (SERRE (A) — Five Pere Realtor Spots ee a ter ements Yok When you discover Martians do exist! And vanish then without prediction?

firmed that it was a meteorite!
breaking up and burning itself!
out.

DR. ASHER CHAPMAN, an
examiner for the FAA said he
rushed to the window of his
home in Glen Cove, N.Y. to see
‘the object traveling “about 1,000)
feet above ground, 300 to 400

miles an hour. Everyone aboard
the plane watched the lights for}
several minutes and Burns or-|'
dered the pilot to turn toward
the object.

At that point the lights ap-
peared to rise and then disap-
peared as though the electricity
had been switched off. Every-

over Valdese.
bul

they saw. the light. It was
Officer Melvin Barlowe

lina about 2 a.m. today and exploded without a sound
The explosion lit up the town like a gigantic fiash-
b.

Police officers in six towns in three counties said
ment in Catawba County said it looked like a “big blue

| bolt of fire with fire arcing off the edges.” He said it
| made no sound when it passed.
|
|

moving from east to west.
of the Newton police depart-

an unidentified flying object high
in the skies over the Capital
city about midnight Thursday.

, They said they caught sight of
& bright light in the sky which
appeared for a time to be a
star in the Big Dipper constella-
tion. Then the light moved swift-
ly in a southerly direction,

|Saucer-Like 3-22-6
[Flying Object

Carl F. Bea of 21 Marlm
street, Bridgeton realtor, report-/
Jed to Bridgeton police ' Monciay
|that he saw a saucer-like flying
Jobject in the sky over Clark's
Pond aréa of Fairton.

ley Monday night, also was |
seen here.
Mrs. Belle Roth, 1042 S.

They're real nice fellows.
I know, 'cause I met one a week ago!
His ship came down for an hour or so.
He talked to me, but then he had to go.

Because they use free energy,

And there isn't any friction.
Brother have you seen their ships ?
Sisters have you seen them glow,

ak ; nara Barlowe estimated its altitude to be 1000 feet. He The lighted object was moving He told Desk Offi 1| | ball of fire and appeared to ‘ *
re tedbvguely aroma hs Ueto rat ra could not estimate its speed, too fatto be en orbiting satee| (gy lis,t0lt Des catia 's aoe tal | Suramar tas Saag, Bits. Real interested I was! As they dance and hover in the sky,
north.” He said he at firstlof the object at the same mo- Sat ine mits Setnt around Bw fab could ppg aera erard ll pont en Ree a
thought the flaming object was|ment. During the time the wes fe nee Z . |front of a property when’ the a northweste! * .
an airplane, as did many oth-lobject was visible Pilot Fred catch if,” he said. “No swamp gas or nothing like the’ object about five minutes lradio of his car suddenly cyt direction and disappeared Got brothers on Venus and Saturn, it seems — And make our fastest jets look slow ?

ers. But, he added, the object
did not dive, but continued in a

Scharrer was in contact with
Miami air traffic control. He;

could move that fast.”

Barlowe said he was alone in his patrol car when
he saw it, but he said Sgt. Donald Burgess patrolling

to move through an arc of 20 to
25 degrees, they said, and then
the light blinked out.

lout and he looked up and saw
a dirty-gray object in the shape
of two saucers—one atop the;

Fly their ships on magnetic beams.

horizontal plane. ‘said that air traffic control’ was in another car across town saw it also. ‘They said the light appeared other—ttendin
‘A r peed 3 | ig with the sky. fire and crashing. She de- : : s
The object was sighted for|asked if it had anything on the Polce officers at Valdese were filling the tank ot : to be at a very high altitude,! | He heard a whine and the ob} | seribed the ball of flame as They wear one piece suits —you can't see any seams;
about five to 10 seconds, most|radar besides the Burns plane. thelr ree peers ae object silently: ex aed moved at tremendous speed and Jiect went out of sight traveling “very bright” and said it ap- 1 t
reports indicated. They reported they did not. *plode. They saw no . we idn’t Live in Their Atmosphere’ made no noise that could be at high speed and the radio} ite —_— 7] i 5
e Couldn't Live ? 5 infant onld be] at GD steed peared to be white hot. But apart from that—they're just like us!

2 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Monday, December 13, 1965

New ‘Fireball Raises
An Old Question: Do
Flying Saucers Exist?

Californian, Who ‘Talks’ to Men
From the Stars, Says ‘Yes’;
Scientists Assail Air Force

By ELLIOT CARLSON

Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

They’re back. The latest was sighted a few
nights ago by residents and: pilots in the north-
ern tier of states and Canada. They described
|| it as an orange fireball. The Air Force'‘at first
called it an unidentified flying object, but now
thinks it was a meteor. Some other people
called it a flying saucer. :

Several people say they saw the firebal] land
Thursday night. An 11-year-old boy in Lorain,
|; Ohio, says he watched it drop into the woods
||near his home. A woman in Elyria, Ohio, 10
‘}miles away, claims she saw it plunge into a
|} vacant lot across the street from her home.
|| Others say they saw it streak into Lake Michi-
\|gan. Scientists and police combed a T5-acre
| area near Pittsburgh after a woman there saw

the object crash to earth “‘smoldering.’’

, Despite these witnesses and search efforts,
however, the thing has yet to be found. In this
regard, it is like all other unidentified flying
objects, or UFOs, which are mysterious be-
cause they are seen but never found. _

‘Whatever it turns out to be—meteor, satel-
Mte part, hoax, weather oddity or man from
4 Mars—it appeared ina banner year ‘Yor such
‘| objects, which almost disappeared from public
consciousness following & rash of. reports: of
flying saucers. in the mid-1950s: ‘‘We’ve had

|mére reports this year-than in any year since
‘| 1957, when we had more than a thousand,” says
a spokesman -for Project Blue Book, -the Air
Force program set up in 1948 to evaluate re-
ports of the phenomena.

Visitors From Outer Space

Nobody knows what the objects are or where
they come from, but there is no lack of theories
—or of controversy. The Amalgamated Flying
Saucer Clubs of America, Inc., is sure the
“‘saucers’’ come from outer space. How do
they know? The’ ‘“‘space people’ have told
them.

Not only that, says Gabriel Green, who
heads the California group, ‘‘space people give
contactees information about life on other
Planets and solutions to insurmountable prob-
lems on our planet.”” One suggestion allegedly
made to Mr. Green in 1960 by a visit from Al-
pha Centauri, ‘a nearby star: Run for Presi-
dent as a write-in candidate. (He campaigned

briefly, then decided not to run.)

The National Investigations Committee on
Aerial Phenomena (NICAP), a private re-
search organization in Washington, doesn’t
hold with that theory. ‘“‘We reject reports of
noble beings landing on earth to solve all our
problems,” says a spokesman. So men from
Mars are a lot of bunk? Not necessarily, says
the committee. It believes 4 Congressional in-
vestigation would prove that UFOs “are real
physical objects . . . under the control of living
beings.” As an. afterthought, the ‘spokesman
says: ‘‘There are a tremendous number of ego-
maniacs who have been able to appoint them-
selves experts in this field because it’s so ccon-
fused.”

One man who’s not confused at all is Charles
A. Maney, professor emeritus of physics and |i
mathematics at Defiance, College in Ohio. Says
the professor: ‘‘These objects are unquestion-
ably from outer space.” He bases his réason-

The spokesman quickly adds: ‘‘We have nei-
ther received nor discovered any evidence that
proves the existence of intraspace mobility or
extraterrestrial life and we continue to extend
an open invitation to anyone who feels he pos-
sesses any evidence of such vehicles operating
in our atmosphere.”’ And he states: ‘‘No UFO
report evaluated by the Air Force has ever
given ary indication of a threat to our national
security.”

The Air. Force’s approach disturbs some
people, however. ‘‘The Air Force should admit
there are natural phenomena taking place un-
der our noses of which we know nothing,” says
I. M. Levitt, director of Fels Planetarium at the
Franklin Institute in Philadelphia. He adds:
“The Air Force is trying to explain something
that isn’t susceptible to explanation.”

Robert Risser, director of the Oklahoma Sci-
ence and Art Foundation planetarium at Okla-
homa City, believes ‘‘the Air Force must have
had its star-finder upside down during Aug-
ust,’’ when.several reparts of flying saucers
were ascribed by the Air Force to sightings of
stars. ‘The constellations of Taurus and Orion
weren't visible at the time the Air Force said
the sightings were made. I think they made an
error.””

The whole problem, says J. Allen Hyntek,
chairman of the department of astronomy at
Northwestern University and a consultant to
the Air Force, is that the matter should be
studied more thoroughly. ,

“Pressures to conformity in academic cir-
cles and fear of ridicule have slowed the
study,’’ according to Robert Hall, a sociology
professor at the University of Illinois in Chi-
cago.

“The ypossibility of life on Mars is an un-
popular thing to consider these days,’ says
Frank B. Salisbury, a professor of plant phy-
siology at Colorado State University. At the
risk of being unpopular, Mr. Salisbury told the
fifth annual Space Conference this year ‘that
“there may be some natural explanation of
these things, but a tentative possibility to .be
considered is that UFOs are spaceships from

ava.”

Fueling the flying-saucer controversy has
been the large number of reports from what
many people consider reliable witnesses—pilots
with technical backgrounds. Since 1947, more

jthan 100 private, military and commercial pilots

have reported spotting strange objects in the
sky; according to one study.

Pinning down such reports is difficult, how- |.

ever. ‘‘Some of the boys did report things they
couldn't identify a few years ago,’’ says \a
spokesman for American Airlines. ‘But our
pilots haven’t made a report for years.”
Nevertheless, ‘“‘we have on file a great num-
ber of reports from pilots who don't want their

names used but still want to tell somebody }

what they’ve seen, claims J. B. Hartanft, Jr.,

president of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots As- |.

sociation, And he says: ‘I haven't drawn any

conclusions myself, but I think we’ve certainly

got.a.good mystery on our hands.”’
\

[© Mew York Hered Teese Ine.

” said.

London, Ontario Free Press 3-26- 66—

100 Watch UFO

Disc-Like Object Hovers,. Rises
For Two Hours East of Kettle Point

By JIM ETHERINGTON
Free Press Sarnia Bureau

SARNIA — A revolving ob-
ject, sighted in the sky east
of Kettle Point last night, was
watched for more than two
hours by about 100 persons.

Lawrence Bressette, who op-
‘erates a store on the Kettle
Point Indian Reserve, said a
motorist brought the object*to
his attention about 8 p.m. He
said he looked at it through
binoculars and could see red,
blue, green and white lights
flashing from the disc-shaped
object.

Mr. Bressette said it re--

mained motionless for about
an hour flashing lights, then
slowly began to rise. Cloud
cover rolled in about 10 p.m.,
allowing only periodic sight-
ings.

“T’ve never seen anything
like this,” he said. ‘We all

saw it. It was low — about 200 |

or 300 feet off the ground to
the east. Then it slowly began
to move up.”

Mr. Bressette said it could |

not have been swamp gas

which was suggested was the |

cause of unidentified ‘flying
object sightings in the Detroit
area last week.

“T’ve seen swamp gas lights.
This was not the same,” he
“Besides there hasn't
been any swamp gas lights
around here since before the
war.”

\Mr. Bressette taal his breth-
er, Jeffery, also reported see-
ing an object over Sarnia. This
one stayed stationary for a
short time then shot across
the sky at a very high speed.

An officer’in control opera- |

tions at Selfridge Air Force
Base, Mount Clemens, Mich.,
said the Canadian sighting
was the fourth reported to
him last night. ©The other
three were fromthe Detroit
area, :

He said no radar reports’

had been obtained on any of
the sightings.

Mr, .Bressette reported jet
‘planes in the area at one
point while the group watched
along the Lake Huron shore.
But there was no possibility
the object he saw was a jet.
In Michigan new reports of

UFO sightings were received
Saturday night as far north
as the tip of the ‘“‘Thumb’’ in
Lake Huron.

Odd lights were reported in
the sky over Oakland County
and the neighboring Detroit
area. Others were reported
westward in the Lansing area.

Dr. J. Allen Hynek of North-
western University, scientific
consultant to the U.S. Air
Forte said phenomena seen
at Dexter and Hillsdale on the
night of March 20 probably
were the result of | swamp
gases,

Sheriff Douglas Harvey of
Washtenaw County and civil
defence director William Van
Horn of Hillsdale County criti-
eized. Dr. Hynek’s report.
Van Horn said the swamp gas
explanation was an attempt
to ‘‘explain it away arbitrar-
Bi el Lee +

|Flying Saucers
Gain Proponent

N.Y. Daily News Dispatch

_ NEW YORK — The nephew of
\|the late Dag Hammarskjold
‘has startled America’s top
science writers by telling them
\|he believes \that' flying saucers
exist and that they come from
outer space.

| Knut Hammarskjold, whose
late uncle was secretary gener-
\|al of the United Nations, spoke
\|to a convention here of the avi-
ation-space writers  associa-
tion.

Hammarskjold also suggested
\|that our space neighbors are
becoming more and more inter-
ested in what people are doing
on earth.

firmed, create problems of le-
zal, political and
characteristics,” he said.

‘ dense scrub.

“The possible existence of
aeighbors in space will, if con- -

technical jae - Les Angeles Reed tiablnet a 14

saucers
mystery

2-3-66

EOPLE in North Queens-
land are mystified by
three separate reports of
Flying Saucers.

ores first report came from a
ear-old banana grower, Mr

a Pediey, who while driving a
rane through a neighbouring
property on his way to his own
farm, heard a loud hissing noise
above the noise of the tractor.

Suddenly. about 25 yards
ahead of him, a blue-grey saucer
shaped craft about 25 ft across,
and 9ft high, rose vertically to
about 60ft and travelling at a,
terrific speed headed’ off in a
‘\pouth-westerly direction,

On investigation, a nest
of flattened reeds was found,
the circle being about 30ft
in diameter and since then
four other nests have been
found close by, some of thei
newly made,  —

During the last eight months,
noless than seven different
sightings of Flying Saucers have
been reported in the North:
Queensland press.

Hundreds. of sightseers - have
flocked to the Horseshoe Lagoon
in the Tully District during the’
last few days to view the circles
which are partly hidden by

The RAAF has taken the
reports seriously enough to
ask for clippings Pasir the

flying saucer sightings from
the area will be investigated.

UNITED NATIONS, N.Y.,
Feb. 7 (AP)—Colman Von-
keviczky, an employe in the
U.N. Office of Public Infor-
mation, proposed to Secre-
tary-General U Thant today
that members of the United
Nations establish a network
to observe flying saucers.

Vonkeviczky, who ,says
he believes someone in out-

TUN Watch For Saucers Urged

|
er space is sending flying
saucers regularly on test
flights to earth.

He told Thant only the
United Nations.could be ex-
pected to have sufficient
authority to establish con-
tact or represent mankind
in a. face-to-face meeting
with extraterrestrial visi-
tors. ‘

STRANGE OBJECT
OVER MT. WILSON

Los Angeles Herald-Examiner

8x Thursday, April 21, 1966.

ing on the fact that the objects often interfere | A2. “was something over] there picked up “no unusu-
with local electrical circuits, indicating to him Mount Wilson early today but] al activity’ during the peri-
they have ‘‘a mearis of propulsion associated it didn’t catch the entire city) od.
napping. 4 An Air Force spokesman
| Police and newspaper | at Vandenberg said the Air
switchboards were flooded | Force’s “Project Blue
with calls describing the | Book” office in Washington
| object variously as a “puff,” | was investigating.
a “greenish ball,” a “flat An. observer at Mather
oval green object with a | Air Force Base near Sacra-
long tail and a light at the | mentotheorized that the ob-
end.” ject may have been gas res
It was first sighted about} jique left from Nevada
4 a.m. and remained in view| missile firings which re-
for about half an hour. flected light.

A ‘similar fireball was | sgt. David Tellotson, of
sighted about the same |Hollywood division, said the
| time from Sacramento and |opject here appeared to be
|| from Vanderberg Air Force jover Griffith Park. “It was a
Base, it was reported. bright green splotch, elon-

Vandenberg reported no |gated, and not blinking,” he
launches. during the |said.
preceding 24 hours which | The only solid fact emerg-
might account for the phe- jing: A lot of people.are up at
nomenon and said radar '4 a.m.

with magnetic fields.’”’
\\. | “There’s Nothing To It” ———4

. Such notions are scoffed at by astronomers, ||.

‘Povey “All this is imagination outside the | ——
‘ r Of science,’’ says Donald H. Menzel, di- ||
rector of the observatory at Harvard. “I have
examined Air Force cases and discovered ‘that ||
UFOs all have simple explanations in terms ||
of well-known natural phenomena. There’s not}! .
one cause, but hundreds. Some are quite spec- ||
tacular, such as reflections from ice crystals or
bright stars, searchlights on clouds or high-
flying spider webs. But to some people the exis-
tence of flying saucers is‘a matter of religious
fanaticism,’’ he says.

But Mr. Menzel reads more into the Air
Force data than does the Air Force itself. Of
the 9,786 UFO reports made to the Air Force
since 1947, 673 remain claSsified as i‘‘unidenti-
fied,’’ a spokesman says. He defines this cate-
gory as containing sightings whose pertinent
data can’t be correlated with any known object
or phenomena.

4

NEW SAUCER PHOTOS: These remarkable photos of Flying Saucers were taken by Dr. Daniel W. Fry,

President of Understanding, Inc., of P.O. Box 76, Merlin, Oregon 97532. Your editor enlarged them
from the original 16mm color movie film. Spots on the photos are due to the extreme enlargement of
scratches and dust spots on the film. Of special interest is the fact that the same type of craft was
photographed near Merlin, Oregon in a wooded section, and again near Joshua Tree, Calif. on the desert.

il ‘Report Them... Forget li—
I Have Enough Credibility Problems As It Is’

World Flying Saucer

Believers Convene

New York Times Service

LOS ANGELES, Calif. —
The “urgent problem” of
improving communications
with the thousands of visitors
from outer space who sup-
posedly are circling the earth
was afforded solemn delib-
eration here this weekend at
a special convention of fly-
ing saucer buffs.

Among the nearly 300 dele-
gates was a_ self-professed
“interplanetary traveler”
niamed Standing Horse, an
Englishwoman who regularly
issues mimeographed reports
on her conversations with
space travelers, a man who
offered to book “group
sightings” of flying saucers
and a presidential candidate
campaigning on the flying
saucer ticket.

THE SPACE buffs, who
assembled in a cavernous es-
y-tablishment called the Blar-
ney Castle, weren’t much im-
pressed with Thursday’s So-
viet moon landing, but they
were awed and confused by
what they reported to be a

sharp increase in _ flying
saucers.

One delegate, Marianne
Francis, warned that the

sightings could mark the be-
ginning of some “ominous
changes” for the earth’s pop-
ulation. But the convention
chairman, Dr. Frank
Stranges, said the “interplan-

mmornenmane

2-6-66

_ MINNEAPOLIS TRIBUNE {
“They accept spacecraft as a
fact of life. Their interest is
in contacting spacemen di-

rectly or through telepathy.”

Green, who regularly runs
for president as a “space age
candidate,” says he cannot
practice telepathy but insists
he has met spacemen on at
least six occasions. The. last
of his visitors, he said, was
four feet tall and came from
the Alpha Centauri solar
system,

Serra miennr,

A muscular, even-featured
young man named Wesley
Bateman said he never had
met spacemen but that he
was in “constant communica-
tion with them through tele-
pathy” and offered a_pro-
gram of instruction to other
delegates who sought similar
contacts, His blonde wife,
Jonell, attired in black Leo-
tards, was kept busy signing
up “students.”

“There is no mystery as to
whether the space men are
way -hing us — some have al-
ny infiltrated our society,”
said Bateman. “The mystery
is why so many are coming.
What's going to_happen?””_|

Flying Saucers,-

(To the Editor, S.C.M. Post)

Sir,—Citizens beware! This is
not a drill! If you report what
you see, your report will . be
treated as hallucination. Your
honest desire to help solve an
aeronautical mystery will "be
discounted . by harassing con-

2-3-66

2 SOUTH AFRICAN POLICEMEN —

REPORT SIGHTING OF ‘SAUCER’

JOHANNESBURG, South Afri-
ca—South “African police and
scientists investigated Thursday
a report that a flying saucer-
type object had landed on a
main highway near Pretoria, the
country's administrative capital.

Two patrolling police officers
reported seeing the flaming
“saucer,” about 30 feet in di-
ameter, shortly after midnight.
One of them, Koos de Klerk,
said that the shiny copper-cole
ored object resembled a giant
spinning top.

The two men claimed that, as
they approached the object, it
took off silenfly at great speed

with flames shooting out of its
underside,

Scientists who examined the.
spot where the officers said that
they saw the object are reported
to have found that a six-foot
wide section of the tarred road
had been badly burned. Grass

on either side of the highway.
also was reported slightly |

scorched.
(Associated Press)

SEPT. -17, 1965

BROTHER JUNIPER BY FR. JUSTIN McCARTHY & LEN RENO

THE BOSTON HERALD, FRIDAY,

It'll be Long Before

“Saucer Is
THE HERALD-NEWS

By PETER A. DVARACKAS

Herald-News Sports Writer

Many months will pass before
the impact of the strange flying
objects which dominated the
North Jersey skies this week
fades into memory.

The bright white disk that
streaked across three counties
and hovered periodically over
the Wanaque Reservoir will pro-
vide an ample amount of con-
versation for weeks to come. In-
deed, thousands of eyewitnesses
know well the story of that
mysterious terrestrial stranger.

Not that the tale of the flying
Saucer is over yet.

Investigators from the Nation-
al Investigation Committee on
Aerial Phenomena (NICAP) may
arrive today in Upper Passaic
County from Washington D.C. to
probe the UFO sightings.

Dr. George White, an elec-
tronics expert, and Dr. John
Pegano of Fort Lee will investi-
gate the scene of the unidentified
object and then report back to
NICAP. Announcement. of. the
impending study was made by
Richard Hall, assistant director
of NICAP.

Nightly Vigil

Police at Wariaque, the state’s
largest water storage basin, con-
tinue to maintain a nightly vigil
at the headworks, in Ringwood
Avenue and Westbrook Road
to spot that weird disk of light
which was seen as late as Thurs-
day night making sharp dips and
maneuvers over the. reservoir:

It’ was Tuesday at 6:30 p.m.
when residents, motorists, muni-
cipal officials, and police
glanced up at the sky and began
the first chapter of an. aerial

JANUARY 15, 1965.
Forgotten

mystery which has yet to be
solved.

“Listen . . , this sounds crazy,
but I saw something in the sky.
Do you know what it is?” This
was the question posed to the
police at the North Jersey police
radio hook-up in Pompton Lakes.
The calls came in from Wana-
que, Ringwood, West Milford,
Paterson, Totowa, Wayne and
Butler.

Astounded residents were
searching for an- explanation.
Even the police were dumb-
founded. They too saw the white
oval hovering in the heavens
from their prowl cars.

The UFO was described then
as a white and garishly bright
disk, two feet in diameter.

According to observers, the
odd movements of the myster-
ious visitor was enthralling.
Some felt as if it were “toying”
with police, citizens and bor-
ough officials hy performing
dives almost into the reservoir;
at times appearing “as if it
were looking down” upon the
spectators from a silent station-
ary position high in the heavens
and by making neat right angles
as if it were using the sky as
a. chalk board. ;

Made Several Stops

The UFO then made quick
stops at various locations in the
community: Lakeland Regional
High School, the Houdaille sand
pit, the overhead bridge in Ring-
wood Avenue ... and then it
disappeared,

Hours later at 2:15 Wednesday
morning, it re-appeared over
Wyckoff and five minutes later
it was spied over the reservoir
in Wanaque where police say it

GOLDEN G

Handicap---Results

ATE

93rd YEAR, NO. 84 <> B

ESTABLISHED FEBRUARY 21, 1874 * OAKLAND, GALIFORNIA

FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 1966

Tribune

10¢ DAILY, $2.25 A MONTH

Flying Saucers Are

pi ag =
Flying swamp gas:

Swamp gas or UFO? The civil defense director of Michi-

gan’s Hillsdale County has issued a report challenging en

“Let's see the Alr Force hush this one up!” ~

THE_CHRISTIAN SCIENCE

MONTTOR__

AIRLINER DETOURS

TO CHASE

4-2-66
as if the object had landed.
Heckman

U.F.O.

circled ove
red, green and e
and radioed Staple

who

Monday, May 2, 1966
cae Aas Sa
Ohio Police Trail
| UFO 86. Miles

CANTON, Ohio — ) —
Hundreds of person reported
| sighting a “bright and shiny”
object over eastern Ohio Sat-
urday night, including police

Poppin’ Up All Over

One Shot
By Man
In Maine

By United Press International

day. Four squad cars of depu-
ties watched one for 45 minutes
‘Thursday night in the Ann Ar-
bor, Mich. area

Dr. H. Allen Hynek, a North-
western University astro-physi-

|the Air Force's Project Blu
Book, is investigating the Mich!-

said they played “tag” | 8am sighting reports. He said he

Air Force scientists who|

UFO’S (?) FLASH ACROSS PRE-DAWN SKY
Time exposure taken by Michigan deputy sheriff

METRO
FINAL

MYSTERY
OBJECTS
IN SKY

Three mystery objects were photographed in the
pre-dawn darkness ever New Plymouth on Sunday
morning.

‘The photographs, which|Tarahua Rd sub-station op-
have baffled local experts, |erator, is convinced the ob-
were taken by 16-year-old] jects ‘were solid
Brian Pollock from the bed-|~ The prints were devloped
room of ‘his Carrington St] by a New Plymouth chemist.

ome.
“thought I was seeing) NO EXPLAN
things, The. director of the Ne
‘Observatory, Mr
gall ICR, D.'W. Daniel had no explan.
i” “1 woke up about 10 min-| ation. “I don't dare mention
utes to 6 and looked out of| anything about flying sauo-
the window to see what the| €rs,” he commented
day was like. Then I saw| “It is quite a scoop if
them. They were just over|we knew what it was...
the power lines,” he said,| it's so definite. So sharp.”
pointing in s north-west dir-| Weather experts at the
ection towards the intersec-| Bell Block Meteorological
tion of Carrington St, Tara-| Station were also just as
hua Rd Brooklands Rd.) much in the dark.
and | They ruled out « met bal-
loon because it was releas-
ed at 4.50 a.m, on Sunday
and even if it was still burn-
ing an hour later it would
be as high as 20,000 feet.
“There is no met explan-

as wi
sun for a time,
But his biggest shock
came while he was taking.
} the photographs.
When he first saw them,
Brian recalled, they were
a hexogonal shape. “The

Later the objects rever-
ted back to their original

to complete his inves-
aera rae oat would. €¥° piymouth on Sunday. At left are the mystery objects as he first saw them, the centre photograph shows

the circular shape to which they changed, and the shot at right was taken after they had reverted back
# to their original form. They disappeared soon after this.

with it for 86 miles,

Rocky Mountains just west) Reports also came from Air
of Palmer Lake, & small] Force reserve pilots based at
community between Den-|| Youngstown’ who said they
ver and Colorado Springs.| attempted to follow the ob-

a So sev-/ject but that its speed—esti-
‘want lOzens} mated a hour—
of other citizens reported “rage Gel tbe wer ong

etary visitors” would turn
out to be “angelic creatures
whose mission is to help
mankind.”

Air Force study which concludes that swamp gas caused
the UFO sightings in the Hillsdale area in March 1966

IESE ARE THE OBJECTS photographed by 16-year-old Brian Pollock In the predawn sky over New form and disappeared. "They
just went... there wasn't
a Mash or anything.”
VERY LOW
During the five minutes
jthe objects were observed,
they ‘did not ‘move at all in
the cloudless sky, and ap-

frontation by paid investigators
who are instructed to suppress
the auvhenticity of their investi-
gation.

almost came to rest at the top
of the 1,500 foot long Raymond
Dam. It was gone at 4:15 a.m.
Police, reporters and resi-

The request for the UFO
William Van Horm said that, at the time of the sightings, check was made by Lowery
it was too windy for swamp gas, and chemical analysis Air Force Base, which said

it had received a number
of soil and water disclosed an abnormally high amount of 't had recelved, a, number

radiation and boron, Van Horn also released this photo jects over the area.

Hong Kong Standard, May 14, 1966

: . Se: j Brian ‘ssed exposures of
The delegates were gen-| peen operative continuously for over Wanaque and Ringwood matQnOay (Orr rato) Soe cotcina Terate Gneae 30. ee ecce ncaa ul. Aa tiies Dulastiin ‘alflone |cal sald he watched two, five and 18 teconds on

erally well groomed, articu-
late men and women who
could have blended into any

‘. isi i ; intri dect, suddenly went down ing lights losing it near Conway, Pa. { County Civil Defence Depart- | walking his dog when “ t
meeting. Many were é visitor is not without intrigue. d a ‘ . | rae when seein | zinaton St, the New Zealan
ha ie AS ak a continuous status of “Classified Aly vena te: report refute Se ee The Federal Avia tion) : Th lctres were aten wy [Sadat a ug| He alte cule, tnt] | saat
heads of h ; ie Unit tates’ ‘orcée. | Agency at Pittsburgh, Pa. Pi pris inal
eads of organizations whose Information.” The only informa- March 21, 1966 || said Ks radar recorded’ noth: | Robert J. Salvo of Wall Town-| might be a plane.” appeared into the clouds. 1

members spotted and photo-
graphed “unidentified flying
objects” and claimed to main-

The UFO Project research has

more than 20 years. The scope
and extent of this project is a
carefully guarded subject. Dur-
ing that time it has maintained

{tion released by the U.S. Air
Force for publication is’ periodic
reports of a few selected cases

SAW 6 FLYING

dents saw the disk as it whisked

both Wednesday and Thursday
night, ,
The story of the mystic sky

leased a number of reports
which August Roberts, a mem-
ber. of the “International Intellf:

of a UFO as it flew over Hillsdale County in July 1965.

Air Force UFO

HILLSDALE, Mich. (UPI) —
The Hillsdale County civil
defense director today issued a
UA-page report challenging an

William Van Horn, who said

miles away.

Kipling Vandenberg and Jerry
Wilson, that concluded:

‘The area

ones which would substantiate

Warren Heckman of Den-

closed
three miles when the
lights, which seemed to be
attached to a moving ob-

He said he
to within about

sighting three UFOs over

tion WBEX, said | and Portage County Sheriff's
pwo of the objects| Deputy W. L. Neff said they | Roculars.
nd one| “played tag” with the mys-

was too slow for their jet
| trainers.

postman,
three of the objects through bi-
a

ere Ge-|terious object for 86 miles
as red, green and|through eastetn Ohio before|

|ing unusual. -

* contained an | t )
abpormally high amount of
radiation from some unknown
source. The area also strangely |
contained boron, which was
found in both water and sol
These two facts are the only

Pictures of a “flying sav:

Army at Ft. Monmouth, New

its top.
Jersey, and the Monmouth

4 ship last March when a rash
of unidentified flying objects | sky,

The youngster said he was

Then 1 looked up in the
which was partially

gaia ‘Flying saucer’ pics on show

FI. MONMOUTH, Fri. j was reported in New Jersey, |cloudy that day,” Robert said,

Th? pictures show an eliptic-| “and I saw something diving
cer" taken by a 13-year-old |ally shaped object with a nob | out of a cloud, then over. me,
boy have been released by the | sticking out of the middle of | and tt was pointing down as

if watching

The Army

eR in the clouds like a bul- | |

me. It then shot

made no com: j

| ment on its identity. — UPI

peared very low.

a £120 Pentax

QPP Chase

| By RICHARD LEVESQUE

tain telepathic communica-| °f mistaken identity—such as gence on ynidentified Flying Ob- ‘aa “See gor 7 | First UFO
tio ith ce traveler | the report to this newspaper on jects elaims are ‘‘a whitewash.” "3 FO sightings here ast N ne 4-18-66
fon with space travelers. —_| February 1, by Dr Allan Hynek: Initially, when the object was windy for swap gus Wo form, — No Arrest

NEARLY ALL agreed that

they were negotiating to pur-

“In Search Of Flying Saucers.”

ings’ of spaceships are compiled

first sighted, the Air Force said

Tuesday,’ May 17, 1966

Bridgeton E

Public Should

fore he makes any decision he

People were seeing swamp gas.

* +e . the of a UFO.” Provincial polic
what they called the “flying||, Honest, sincere observers no it was an official helicopter with 5 aes at sae ot . Es! here” een at
at they called the “flying|’ j.9er report UFO sightings to | a strong. beacon. A few hours : inn March 22, ae nare  | [ASKS Probe of Fl ing Saucers Michi witery ee
saucer movement” was un- accepted authority. (Why con- later Air Force jets were spotted al, ald Ge ereatannen Se me environment of dhe campus - Y 3-30-66 ‘eite Cc gan constables st ‘Three Rivers re
dergoing sharp expansion.| tinue to slap your own face?) by police ’flying over the 'Wana- Fore at erry compliers Swampland where the sightings | Ford Says U, S.)_2s% Mel Rwers 1D, An sc force constant wii LIGn ported to headquarters that
T del d a 1 actual sight- = ori (ites YS U. S.js.c_), headsof the armed serv: |vestigated some of the Michi. Licwr UFOL d. they were, chasing a luminous
wo delegates announced] For. several years actual sig! DAILY SKETCH que. procter iy ag pecan iS eae ices committee, said that be-|gan Teports last week sald the ANAS [[schevicat ject

; Hynek és a Northwestern : lt with ranking com-| After Ford said last Friday a eee ete
. 5 ; lubs all over Experiment? ; ne Niwa, 38S will consul % sai y and Ronald Gagnier, said the
chase radio stations to help| at Flying Saucer Clubs all over eee Roberts’ theorized the object]  — Sumr"gynisuz thas News. 3-31-66. _ Get Answers [rite metas ea Tes rie, Sugh Compre sn D SWAMP — dec cnn, 38, to
transmit their theories, Sev-| Gx, Clubs of Ameries “might possibly have been. al | Book” ie runing’ sudy ot Another ‘UFO a egy, |mtioe nl eter vert [taps sugges PO ANN ARBOR, Mich, (UPI) Fence River, eat Pon"
eral flying saucer magazines| (AFSCA) maintain a compre- government experiment in the UPO report Is Sighted By |__| pressing'sbelet that the Amer. | ommitee because it has Jur-| Head of Committe — At least 40 persons'saw an La.

and hundreds of books were
on sale at the convention.

“These people are contac-

hensive information department
that registers Club activities, and
reports from all over the world.
Anyone can write to AFSCA,
2004 N Hoover Street, Los An-

P OLICE CONSTABLE Donald Cameron made out a report
last night and hoped the Chief Constable would believe
that he really DID see six flying saucers.
Pc Cameron was.at home on sick leave when he looked out

creation of an anti-gravity ma-
chine.”

As yet nobody really seems
to know what the UFO was or

Van Horn said his report, in
which he charged that Hynek
spent only three hours investi
gating the Hillsdale sightings,
resulted from a sevensweek
investigation by “my men and
myself.”

Woman At Elmer|

MILLVILLE Aiother South
Jersey resident reported seeing
a strange, hovering white ob-
ject in the sky in front of her)
car as she pulled into her yard

ican” public deserves a better
explanation of reports of flying
saucers and other unidentified
flying objects, Republican
House Leader Gerald R. Ford
(Mich.] today formally re-
‘quested a congressional inves-

Charge Facts Hidden
The air force has been in
the business of investigating
UFOs since 198, and those
who believe there is substance
to the flying saucer

Teports | petent persons, including radar

Donald E. Keyhoe, a retired
marine corps major, who is di-
rector of the National Investi-
gations Committee on Aerial
Phenomena, a private organ-
ization, says thousands of com-

eerie unidentified flying object
land in a swamp near here
[Sunday night, police said Mon-
day. ‘Twelve’ witnesses were
policemen, y
Officers said four sister
ships hovered in a quarter-cir-

They chased the object for
several minutes and then saw it
‘erash” in tidal flats.
The officers ran to the scene
but could not find anything
In alerting other police posts.
the officers termed it an un.

F P a le above the object until it identified fyi
* ” = Some he report, Ven More lene suburban F or iran tigation. charge it bas cloaked its find-|controlers, missile trackers, ook a ing object
ne! i omg a poe geles, California 90027, U.S.A., a window and saw six glowing objects hovering in the distance a = erronggy Mm soe cieugint Or teins Monaks lies eal? Weteedoy: sere onc 22,2, see that all ot ing, eeresy eg aod eagaged Inland qualified plots, hav | ite oe ered rg hem che, tices in charge at
, and receive. a concise, conscien- “ ‘4 : ORT. rf] * > theory chat swamp gas formed !ing. a . | sightings. Kehyoe told alan. — |police radio communications
man who served as president |! tious report about any informa- I thought I was seeing things and called my wife,” he said last night. from Mars, Sy notay wid tabblo tnctnanag be sGoed On Gag hte “tied Pook mall'tc tette ce te ta| Weed obive Sinise bes |been: ecbetey ie Gn toe Patrolman Robert Hunawill | during the night had been bad

of the Amalgamated Flying
Saucer Clubs of America.

tion He. is: seeking.
| We don’t need to search for

Flying Object

Flying Saucers—we only need
to acknowledge: their presence.
Actually we are on one of the
strangest UFO’s in the universe.
Our “Friends” who are now in-

Police Kept Busy

Spotters Jam U

“We watched them for about 30 se

p-County

conds before they disappeared at speed
-———, towards Manchester:

“They were about a mile
away. I could see them
clearly even though it was
a dull day. They were white

| and glowing. a

“One was bigger than

But this is not the first time
a UFO has been sighted over
the’ Wanaque. Some 18 years ago
Charles Capen, former chief en-
gineer of the North Jersey Dis-
trict Water Supply Commission

there was too much wind that
night for swamp gas to form.
He also said average monthly
temperatures proved that
swamp ges coukt not form
under the existing conditions.
The report included a de-
tailed chemical report, made
by two men described only as

in front of her car so!
tance in the air

“At first 1 thought it wasn’t)
anything,” she suid. “But after
1 turned my car, there it wus
again. What made me so sure
that there must be something
around was the way the dows
were barking. They never bark
when I come home.

chairmen of the House armed
services and space commit-
tees. “I think there may be

been the scene of a rash of re-
cent UFO reports, said the peo-
ple are entitled to a more thoro

substance to some of these re-
-

explanation than has been given
by the air force up to now.

mittee has concluded that
“these things are real and
must be extraterrestial be-

cause they are so superior to
anything we have.”

FIRST UFO SPOTTER

POLICEMAN ‘and five other persons who saw unidentified
~ flying objects near Ann Arbor Mich., put together this
— jl composite drawing of what they sighted. Drawing, made

i

TEVA

at Washgenaw County sheriff's headquarters, shows gen
eral shape, placement of lights and antenna-like objects,
and surface of UFO. (UPI Telephoto)

lof Dexter, a nearby village,
said he and other residents of
the area saw similar objects
zipping through the skies ear-
iy ast Monday and Wednes-

FRANK MANNOR, 47, a
farmer, and his son,” Ronald,
19, said they approached with:

lay in’a swamp, they said,

in’ 500 yards of the. object. It
ies pulsating haloed lights or

due to an unusual amount of
static,

He also said a newspaper
|/truck driver had called him to
||report 2 “luminous fireball”
had been following him. in
northend Montreal at about the
same time as the police sight
ings.

The driver said he passed
through certain stops on his de
livery schedule because the

the others with a cup- |said he- saw something that Toronto, Canada Telegram, March 28, 1966 mi each end, Mannor sald it was “luminous fireball” followed his
. ® ee | vestigating us cannot understand shaped dome—obviously | Jooked very similar to.the object ° = ebout the length ofa car. He |[tried to lose it by "swerving
Sighted in Illinois ; wet . cat.) lea ieee al aos
our. belligerant attitude toward the. mother ship. The cribed ow those Vin saucers drew a picture of ft, showing ar ectio
their conscientious effort to con- others were oval,” he added. des in the newspaper. y § es, shape about that of a foot- pect kept close b;

NORMAL, Ill.— Pl) —Sev-
eral persons living on the|
same block here said they
saw an unidentified flying |

tact us.
‘Neither can “I.

! UFO spotted 5-16-66
PASADENA (AP)—Scores of|”

Roads for UFO Glimpse

RINGWOOD — If the little]them to move on, but they kept!
men from outer space had the}coming back on the other side
up-county police on the runjof the road, so we just had to

As he made out his re-
|port-at his home in Chil-
tern-road; St. Helens
Lanes, Pe. Cameron said:

“I suppose I will get
| some ribbing from the lads,

Reservoir police claimed
to have seen something “round
and bright” two weeks ago, over
Lilly Hill in Stonetown and
Board Mountain near Sloatsburg

ta

come to Canadian skies

‘Those puzzling flying sau-
cers invaded Canada last
night. ,

watched a multi-colored ob-

In Sarnia, 100 people

ject — officially an uniden-

storekeeper, said a motorist
pointed out the saucer-
shaped object to him about

“There seemed to be a kind
of fox underneath it,” Mannor

said.

He said his son said, “Look
iat that horrible thing!” and
ithe craft vanished. Two depu-
ties, Mannor’s son-in-law and
lother witnesses said it zipped

Finally, he said he couldn't
see it anymore and returned to
his normal route

|| Sighting of unidentified fly:

||ing objects have been occurring
|frequently throughout the prov-
ince in the past few weeks

oe
ROBERT TAILOR, Dexter

j ; | is , i rT fly ~ 8pm. | lover the tree tops. They de- police chief, said he watched
object last night. startled residents called news-| Tuesday, their earthly counter-}give a couple of them sum-| Put that ts not what Road, according to Charles jn eee Trecahan’ sant hevecll fae Gea Nadie Ooac -" OG Ae dhs ealiing | Sec eed charade hearths femmes = kaa oneintns
papers and police after sighting} parts caused more trouble Fri-/monses. They had everything, | . oe Theodora. nia, and Kitchener- Water- the Kettle Point area ike this,” Mr. Bressette

The object had four blink-
ing lights, red, white, blue
and green, proceeded north-
easterly, hovered over a
grove of trees, then returned
southwesterly. The object
was seen first by the Merle
Simpson family, then others.

what they described as blinking,
moving lights in the skies over
the San Gabriel Valley last
night.

Officers said some residents
saw the lights “travel fast, then
slow, then stop.” They said one
Pasadena area resident report-

day night.

cameras, binoculars,

Reservoir in this small hamlet} counter.”

and created what old timers

tele.
Throngs of the curious ringed| scopes. I was waiting to see one
normally deserted Wanaque|of them get out with a geiger

|both Wanaque and this borough

| the Chief Constable thinks.

ithe sky, however had failed tol
make a return appearance Fri-
day.

Since the sightings, Tuesday,

' the reservoir to catch a glimpse

Dean Noll, assistant engineer,
for NJDWSC does not believe
that the UFO might have been a
mysterious attempt to. pollute
the water supply. There are
“easier ways”, he said.

Throngs of interested persons
are still lining the perimeter of

Joo.
‘Two University of Toron-

to engineering students say

they saw a bright, whirling!

object fly across the sky| Al

from their rooftop observa Get Another

tion point

‘And Inglewood, Ont, man| R
described a multi-colored
object he saw briefly while

10 to Caledon.

red or maroon to orange to, £°

Lawrence Bressette, a said

He dismissed the idea it
could have been swamp
gas, thy explanation ‘given
by US. Air Force consul-

Maine 5-11-66
uburn Police

eport on UFO

those UFO reports last night.
At 9 o'clock the department!

inot Avenue.

tant, Dr.dJ. Allen Hynek,
|for simila® sightings in the
| Ann Arbor area of Michigan
Auburn police zot another one} gince March 20.

‘The rash of U.S. sightings
driving north on Highway’ received a call’ from. Charies| Continued at the week end
Ray of 90 Court St. who saidj with reports from Green

“ he saw som kind of an object] Bay, Wis., and Columbus,
Tt changed from a deep! ecing through the’ sky over| Ga’

LANDING SITES AVAILABLE
Sicneo... Barry Ivers MAYOR

(tie warbling sirens used on
jsomé police cars or a ricoch-
eting bullet.
SIX POLICE cars. chased
the formation but the objects
vanished. Policemen said they
land other witnesses except the
Manors could see only lights
because of the darkness.
Two Washtenaw County
sheriff's deputies said they
saw blinking lights—apparent-
ly from the object—rise above
trees, then dip again,
Hunawill said he saw “four
hovering ove:

ithe 300-acre swamp about 12
miles northwest of here.

“I saw a red glow down in

the swamp,” Taylor said. “It
was a pulsating bright red
jand then it grew dimmer. I
put ‘the binoculars on it and
jsaw that there was a light on
jeach end of the thing.”
Deputy Stanley “McFadden
said at, least 60 persons saw
the strange lights in the air or
fon the ground.

McFadden and Deputy
David Fitzpatrick left their
jcar and slogged through the
swamp after watching the ob-

lof those
3 : * A * 7 ' » businessman who started the | ~aP proto, jthe area” in a quarter circle
They said it was flat and| ed the smell of perfume as the i : reservoir. The elusive thing in||have been overpopulated with} f the brilliant phantom that has, al yellow,” Be sal | gs Sai eas claret sals| tect wal soma by furry, ng saucer sighing nto tebags,rwwint || SIGNS OF THE TIMES are witfon at Brewer, Me, Brewer on South Mein Shootin Brewer, perhaps the fint to off. [abore, the oblect cn the /t Tg tes top level. then
small lights appeared and moved Ringwood Police Lieutenant television cameras, newsmen for the moment, vanished. into and chenged back € d00p. fe were svalabe ia the|four poticemen and a teach eae eet an oe ares aera ce akomes mnidentitid fing objet rah of thom har cil sce the vitor i amy. Sofa Brver hs had METRE lah Woonh cut Otc the ey is
i . Ja Ha: said “We to i Ted again.” ce repo ex at Green Bay. ter. (AP Wirephoto) mn reported, from Brewer to . This sign is posted no takers, il hopes that its enterprise will pay off. foenter object (the one on the crowd of people
ck O’Hara Id(Continued on Page 2, Col. 7) ||and the curious. il the ether: ged) and then few ver |eated it onthe ground,

Head Saucerer Believes
Martians Are Watching Us

Who's in All
Those Saucers?

By Harold Scarlett

Was Jesus Christ a Martian?

“It’s hard to say,” said Gabriel
Green. thoughtfully. Then he added
that it certainly seems plausible.

It’s no trick at all to walk on water
or ascend to the heavens if you have a
Martian levitation belt around your
waist and an anti-gravity beam to
ride, Green explained.

Furthermore, he said, the Martians
now visiting earth on flying saucers
are trying to save the earth's people
from their own follies — just as the
Savior was.

Green can speak with some au-

thority on these matters because, he
says, he met and talked with a Martian
once. Also a four-foot man from the
Alpha Centauri star system. Also some
other unearthly visitors.
‘ SOMETIMES, HE said, he met these
flying saucer crewmen by telepathic,
appointments. These were arranged
through associates of his. with tele-
pathic talents.

“And once in a while,” he said, “they
would just call on the id

Green, who lives in Angeles, is
the head saucerer — the president —
of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer
Clubs of America.

Not being too telepathic, we just
called Green on the phone to interview
him about the recent rash of flying
saucer sightings around. the country.

“Tt is a continuation of their efforts
to enlighten us,” Green. replied in calm
and cultured tones.

“The current series of sightings and
landings, I understand, will increase.
They are not going to go away, as
some members of our government
would like.”

WHY DO THEY keep buzzing down
here and scaring people?

“What with nuclear proliferation
growing, it seems rather obvious that
unless we start resolving the present
problems facing mankind, we will
destroy ourselves and perhaps some of
the universe along with us,” Green ex-
plained.

“This is one of the primary reasons
why the extra-terrestrials started mak-
ing visitations in 1947, shortly after we
developed this ability — to watch over
us and if possible to impart their ad-
vanced scientific, technological and
sociologicat knowledge to help us re-

SAUCER OR STRAW HAT, THIS

PAGE 4—SPOTLIGHT

UFO Plays Tag With Deputies in 85-Mile Chase

‘Te Pa Mae’ saa

ee

solve these problems before we destroy
ourselves.”

Green said he is trying to do his
humble best to help them spread that
message.

“The solutions they have given,” he
said, “dea] primarily with resolving the
motives for wars, expansionism and
poverty. They hope to eliminate the
have-not nations . . . through superior
financing. They have an advanced eco-
nomic system they call Universal
Economics. The economics part of it is
what I personally am trying to trans-
mit.”

HE SAID RUEFULLY, however,
that the saucer clubs themselves are in
an economic pinch that has prevented
needed research.

Green said he runs the saucer clubs
out of his own home, at 2004 North
Hoover in Los Angeles, “to cut down
on the overhead.” He said there are
clubs in 50 major U.S. cities and
abroad, with a total of about 3,500
members. Houston has no club, he said,
but he does have some interested Hous-
tonians on his mailing list.

“We are a contact-oriented research
group,” he said, “meaning that many
of our members have made actual

or au) x

tcc, Engin my ball and the green—I'd hardly

call

_ From B. C., the Post, May 9, 1966

physical contact with crews of these
craft.”

Green said he has sighted 85 to 100
spacecraft around Los Angeles over
the years and has met “half a dozen
or so members of the crews.”

BUT GREEN BELITTLED his own
experiences.

“They're so insignificant it’s hardly
worth talking about them,” he said.
“Some of our members have actually
been taken for rides in spacecraft.

“T certainly wouldn’t turn down a
ride if it were offered me. But they've
never asked me.”

Green said he met the Martian by
appointment at a friend’s home, and he
looked “just like anybody you’d meet
on the street.” He was casually
dressed, Green said, and wore a short-
sleeve, shimmery, metallic-looking
shirt which he said would stop bullets.

All in all, a handsome chap, Green
said.

“I felt his hair and it was quite
coarse and worn in a V-shape down to-
ward the center of the forehead,”
Green said. “But I rather doubt all
Martians wear their hair alike, any
more than we do.

“HE SAID THE MARTIAN canals

AT intelligent life from another planet.”

Cartoon by Fischettt

were really canals for distributing the
short water supply from their polar
regions, and that the two Martian
moons are really artificial satellites
just like the Russian astronomers have
supposed.”

Green said he had met the Alpha
Centauri man several times — once in
the Green home.

“He was dressed ordinarily and was
about four feet tall, although this was
unusual. Most of the reports of them
are that they are normal height or
larger,” Green said.

“There was that space ship that
landed near Albuquerque, for instance,
with a crew of four men and five wom-
en. They were very beautiful, very well
proportioned. Seven to nine feet tall.”

Green said he had met other inter-
stellar travelers but would “rather not
go into the whole list.”

Where did they park their space
ships while they were visiting him?

“OH, SOMETIMES they actually
park them — hang them up in the sky
with a force field around them. Then
they have an anti-gravity beam and
levitation belts they wear around the
waist to get on down to earth.

“Through these, they can accom-
plish such miracles as walking on
water and ascending into the heavens.”

Green said he is 41 and was a
photographer with the Los Angeles
Board of Education until he resigned
in 1959 to try to help the spacemen
save civilization.

Green said naturally he asked to
take the spacemen’s picture, but they
refused and he abided by their wishes.

“An associate of mine once tried to
sneak a couple of flash pictures,” he
said, “but two times the flash gun

GABRIEL GREEN
Head Saucerer
like Uncle Martin Favorite
Martian.’ ”

Green said he had never seen one
of the unearthlings beside his space
ship. Then how could he be sure they
weren’t a hoax — practical - joking
earthlings just putting him on?

“Oh, I wouldn’t believe just anyone
who walked up to me and said he was
from Mars,” Green replied.

“But if you get a call from the White
House and were told President Eisen-
hower would meet you at a certain
time on the corner of Hollywood and
Vine, and you went there, and a man
there who looked like the President
called you by name, wouldn’t you be-
lieve he was Eisenhower?”

Green said he once asked a spaceling
to prove himself by disappearing.

“BUT HE REFUSED and told me to
walk away,” Green said. ‘“‘He was on a
balcony five floors high, and I walked
down a hallway for three or four sec-
ond and turned and looked back and
he was gone. There was no logical
place for him to go from that balcony.

Green believes the spacemen are un-
doubtedly friendly, just as they profess
to be, or otherwise they could have
destroyed the earth long ago.

“They say they want nothing from

us but our friendship,” he said. “They
would never destroy us. This would be
a violation of their code of life. They
revere all living things.”

Apparently they do have lapses,
though.

“There was one decision that if any
nation on earth fires a nuclear war-
head, it will fall back on the people
who fired it,” Green said. “I don’t know
what their latest decision has been.”

HE EXPLAINED that he hasn’t been
in contact with a spaceman for two or
three years now.

Green said people from many planets
are visiting earth, and that accounts
for the wide variety of flying Saucers
being sighted.

One of his favorites is the Venusian
scout ship. That’s the one about 50 feet
in diameter with the three protruding
semi-spheres on the bottom and the
portholes around the cabin.

Green said it is operational only
within 5,000 to 10,000 miles of a
planet’s surface. He said it comes down
from a cigar-shaped mother ship that
parks up there. The mother ship can
make interplanetary trips.

At this point we decided to end the
interview. The long-distance line to Los
Angeles had begun makifig an eerie
wheeee and then an ominous blup-
blup-blup.

Maybe
ing in.

on ‘My

the Martians were listen-

FLEW IN CALIFORNIA LAST AUGUST
Highway Patrolman Rej Heflin Photographed It Through His Car Windshield

wouldn’t fire, even though the camera ra

was in perfect working condition.
“THAT DEMONSTRATES the pow-

ers of the mind of these people. Just

SUNDAY, MAY 15, 1966, THE HOUSTON POST

THE PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER, MONDAY MORNING. APRIL 18, 1966

RAVENNA, O., April 17 (UPI).|Portage county sheriff's head-|light so bright he couldn't look

—Two Portage county sheriff’s|quarters here.
deputies followed a “bright cir-

“T had never seen anything

directly at it.
Franklin and his crew. report-

cular” unidentified object Sun-jthis bright before in my life,”|ed the sighting to police who also
day from Atwater, 0., to Free-|he told Deputy Robert Wilson|viewed the object.

drom, Pa., a distance of 85 miles./via the radio.
Deputies Dale Spaur and W.

routine traffic accident at 5 A.M.|bright “‘you

The two deputies were joined

In Benton Harbor, Mich., ajin the chase at East Palestine,
L. Neff were investigating ajflying object degcribed as so|U.,
couldn’t
when they were alerted by|straight at it” was sighteti early|Palestine

just across the State line
lookjfrom Pennsylvania,

Patrolman Wayne

radio to be on the lookout for|Sunday near the downtown sec-| Huston.

an object heading their way.
Spaur, an Air Force gunner

tion of the city.
Three rubbish collectors saidjed larger than an airliner and
during the Korean War, said the|they gaw the object hover over|t aveled in a straight line.

Huston said the object appear-

He

circular object ‘‘about 30 to 45|a motel along the St. Joseph/said it would change altitude

feet in diameter traveled at|River. The. head of the crew,
in, said \
about 15 storiés.in the air, had|ton’ said, “but when the object

speeds from 80 to 100 miles an|Joseph
dour.”

suddenly,

it. was| “It was a funny thing,” Hus-

“Tt was about 1000 feet in|a steel-like shell™wnd ‘looked|got too far ahead of us it ap-

the air and was extremely!

“something like a hot,-dog” in|peared to stop: and wait.”
bright,” Spaur radioed to thelshape. He: said it had a brilliant| Wilson said at one time Spaurled that it ‘had no wings.” _|

\reported the object, which had, Wilson said the object “was

Saucer

‘Sighting

DETROIT, MICHIGAN

Report

MARCH 30, 1966

Five sightings were re-
ported on Monday of unidenti-
fied flying objects, observed
in the sky in the northwest
Detroit area,

Northwest Precinct police

station had three reports,
Schaefer one, and Palmer
Park, one,

On Monday, 7:20 p.m., sev-
enteen year old Mike Woods,
8418 Fuast, states that hesaw
a very high object with white
lights hearding north from
the southwest, in the Faust-
Van Buren Avenue area,
Eddie Crunk, 17, 19749
Greenview and his companion,
Robert Spallneo, 15, 19743
Greenview, observed an object
over Crunk’s home at about
8:20 p.m, Crunk said that
the UFQ came from the west,
stopped;far a moment andthe
was pes Golfig east, wr
lights changing fram the coi
red to green and then ambe

At 9:30 p.m,, sixteen-yeai’
old Michael Senia, 1281
Virgil saw something with a!
white light traveling very fast
near Virgil and Glendale. He
claims also to have seen it
at the same time on Sunday
night,

A 39-year-old man reported
to the Schaefer precinct that ;
he had observed something
with red, yellow and green
rotating lights at 11:17 p.m,
Stewart Hall, 8549 Abbington,
saw the object near his home,
stating that it was visible for
about a minute.

Karen Ellington, 17, 15587
LaSalle, was walking to the
front door of her home about
midnight, when she noticed an
object in the sky. It appeared
to be about 150 yards away,
according to the police re-
port and stood motionless over
the John Lodge Expressway,
near Linwood, It was ap-
proximately 500 feet in the
air, 9 feet long with a red
light on the left and a green
light on the right,

Miss Ellington told police
that the object stopped twice
and lights started flashing.

.Its path of travel was from

the east to the west,
She said she had seen others

' around the first of May,

2—Nevada State Journal

Civil Defense Director

Watches ‘Flying Saucer’

10¢ DAILY, $2.25 .A MONTH

GOLDEN GATE

Handicap---Results

93rd YEAR, NO. 81

aS

aa 7

ESTABLISHED FEBRUARY 21, 1874 *

OAKLAND,

TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 1966

Eerie 1896 Sighting

By JIM HAZELWOOD

The so-called Unidentified
Flying Objects (UFO's) seen
Sunday in Michigan by at least
60 people, recall a bizarre story
which appeared in The Tribune
70 years ago.

e date Was Nov. 23, 1896,
and it reported that many per-
sons saw an “airship” flying
over Oakland.

But this date was 10 years be-
fore the Wright brothers made
the first successful heavier-
than-air flight at Kitty Hawk.

Aerial balloons, however, had
been known for decades.

The Oakland “airship” was
the talk of the town for days
anda number of other sightings
were reported, from as far
away as Red Bluff.

Although the original story
said the craft resembled a
“huge bird,” later sightings
described it as egg-shaped with
lights at both ends.

Tt should be ‘borne in mind
that shapes of aireraft and esti-
mates of airspeed were still
sciences of the fyture when the
following story, reproduced in
part, was written.

Tuesday, May 10, 1966

More Than 5 Million People
Say They Saw Flying Saucers

By GEORGE GALLUP

More than five million Ameri-
cans claim to have seen scie-
thing they believed to be a “
ing saucer.’ And, about | 10
times as many people — or
nearly half of the U.S. adult
civilian population —* believe
that these frequently reported
flying objects, while not neces-
sarily “saucers,” are real and
not just a figment of the imagi-
nation.

These are the principal find-

“That a huge airship has
been hovering over Oakland for
the last few nights has in the
minds of many been conclusive-
ly proven. A number of persons
whose integrity is unquestiona-
ble have seen the strange navi-
gator of the air and this num-
ber includes many whose scepti-
cism has been pronounced.

“Last evening at about 7:30
o'clock, the passengers on an
Alameda car were startled by
the sightof a brilliant stream of
light high in the heavens off in
the direction of Hayward.

“The passengers distinctly saw
the outline of an airship and
watched its maneuvers high in
the skies. The ship resembles 4
huge bird in its outlines and
seemed to rise and fall in its
course. A light streamed from
the head of the ship, throwing a
white stream of light for sever-
al hundred yards.

“As the outlines of the airship
were plainly discerned, the pas-
sengers in:'the street car be
came greatly excited.)

“The phenomenon ‘had first
been noted by a man who had
been idly watching the heavens.

As soon as he perceived the
light, he attracted the attention
of the other passengers and all,
intensely interested, watched
the peculiar machine as it
made its way through the skies.

“Tt was high in the heavens.

It appeared to be of huge size.
When first seen, it seemed to be
floating ever San Leandro. It
moved rapidly, going at least 20
miles an hour. It shot across
the skies to the northwest, then
it turned quickly and disap-
peared in the direction of Hay-
ward.
+ “Not only was the airship
seen by the passengers, but
many other residents of . this
city distinctly saw the brilliant
light and the huge bird-like
body floating in mid-air.

“None of the spectators were
acquainted with each other and
yet their stories are mip t
similar, agré as to time, di-
rection of rig hay and de-
seription.”’ , {
‘These facts Jeave little doubt
in the minds of rhany. people
that a successful airship. has
been invented and-is navigating
the heavens.”

* GALLUP POLL

HILLSDALE,, Mich. (UPI)—A
county civil defense director
f\and 87 co-eds said teday they
watched.an eerie, hovering
flying object settle in a swampy
& | hollow near a college dormitory
last night.
William Vn Horn, 41, Hillsdale
county. civil. defense director. for
10 years, said he watched the
S| unidentified object through bino-
culars for three hour.
It was the second straight
night a large number of wit-
nesses reported seeing wiered
unidentified fl yi ng objects in
Southern Michigan. Sunday |
\night a dozen policemen and at
least 40 other persons watched
a similar object, guarded by
\four ‘sister ships, land in a
swamp about 45 miles northeast
of here near Ann Arbor, Mich,
‘The Air Force ahnounced {t
& | was.calling in Dr. H. Allen Hy-
=|nek, chairman of the Dearborn
4 | Ob: fory at Northwestern
«| University, Evanston, Iil., and
scientific consultant to the Air
Forct’s UFO study program, to
investigate ;the rash of sight
| ings.
| -Hynek -will work .from Sel- |
| fridge Air Force Base at»Mount
Clemens, Mich., the Air Force

| Said.
| Van Horn said he joined, the
|87 Hillsdale college co-eds and
their housemother to watch the
| object. He -said it emitted wav-
jering..orange, red and white)
|lights ‘and- appeared to. hover |
| just ‘above the swamp ‘some 1
+ 000 to. 1,500 yards from the dor- |
mitory. !
It was still there when he left
about 1:30 a.m. today, he said. |
“It was definitely some kind
| of vehicle,” Van Horn said. He |

Tribune

CALIFORNIA

Binghamton, N. Y., October 24, 1965

THE SUNDAY PRESS

— ENCOUNTER WITH A SPACE SHIP. won

Ei

By KEITH GEORGE

Newark Valley—Gary
T. Wilcox is a young man
dogged by rumors.
People say his dairy

farm has gone bust be-
cause nothing ‘will grow
on the land.

Others who meet him on the
street express surprise, say-
ing they’d heard he was in a
New York City hospital suf-
fering from radiation burns.

One story has it his land
is under guard for govern-
ment study and that there is
a darkened patch in his pas-
ture where nothing will grow.

The handsome, 28-year-old
farmer says none of these
tales is true.

But the strangest of all, and
the basis for the rumors, is
his encounter with a space
ship and his talk with its eerie
crew 17 months ago.

That happened, Mr. Wilcox
says.

“I know what I sav for
two hours. I was talking with
them and even joking with
them.”

Mr. Wilcox touched the
metallic-like, egg-shaped craft
and heard its strangely-
garbed occupants explain in
smooth English they were
from Mars, he said, When he
turned to get them a bag of
fertilizer, as they requested,
the ship lifted off the ground
and was out of sight in sec-
onds, he recalled.

In the weeks after he re-

this awareness score {is one of

tory of the Gallup Poll.

Are flying saucers a hoax?
Philip Easter of Baltimore, Md.,
told one of our interviewers this
story: “It was dark and I had
just come out of a building. I
hovering in the dark sky above
me, It was very bright and
Stayed in about the same posi-
tion for several minutes.
first I thought it was a planet,

Futher analysis of these data

|the highest in the 30-year his-|show that flying saucer sight-|

ings are not necessarily a phe-
nomenon of certain population
groups. Similar proportions of
college educated persons, and
those who have not gone beyond.
grade school claim to have seen

looked up and saw this object|them.

Real or Imaginary?
Are flying saucers real or
imaginary? We asked this ques-

At/tion, with surprising results. Al-

though the Air Force claims

ed almost 20 years ago. At that;
time—shortly after the flying!

‘out of every ten called the sau-
cers either a hoax or the’ prod-
uct of some overheated imagi-
nation. In 1950, another Gallup
survey showed that attitudes
had begun to change. More per-
sons that year held the view
that the saucers were a reality.

In weighing what evidence

saucers were first noted—four| 3)

there is about the credibility of/the space age believe there is

2) Actual vehicles from out-
er space
Burning gas,

wenmnp | |
gas”

4) Meteors, shooting stars

5) Weather baloons

6) Supernatural revelations
Those who believe they are
|from outer space account for 6/
per cent,

Life on Other Planets?

Dg people who are living in

|said it changed from orange to

red,” perhaps, with a rotating
light of some. kind, and had a
whit light at one end.

“From. all appearances it did
not appear to be sitting on the

| ground ‘as it moved back and}
}forth across the ground,” bel

said.
HAMOPERATORS

Thunderstorms lashed the
area as Van Horn and the col-

lege girls watched from a sec-|

ond floor dormitory windéw, Po-

something like an antenna pro- caught by radar” in Pittsburgh.
He said that at least seven jets
from the Cleveland-area headed
\Spaur and Neff were riding. —_|for the object after it was re-

truding from the bottom, hover-
ed above the cruiser in which

Wilson said that Spaur and /pcrted.
|Neff were questioned by an “‘Air|
Force colonel” in Freedom.

Greater Pittsburgh Airport said/screen.)
jit had no report onthe UFO.) |
“The chase lasted about 50
minutes and, in that time, the|
object was reported seen by at/’
least six or seven other depart-|
ments, both in Ohio and Penn-
sylvania,”* Wilson said.
| Neff, a one-time Seabee,
agreed with Spaur in the de-|
scription of the object and add-

A-B les dngeles Herakdtamner = Hx

MEMPHIS, Tex., May

Tuesday, May 17, 1966

17,fourfoot strip of what apjabout 2% miles distant at

(AP) — Rural residents told|peared to be tin and alumi-(4:10 p.m.

of seeing a cigar-shaped ob-jnum.

ject drop from the sky yes! David Duncan, 28, with Ra/
terday, and two men said !t/qio station KGBH in Mem.
phis, related these details:

Ernest Lee, whose
reported hejhome is 3 miles southeast of
spotted something
another unidentified flying|which looked “like two para-
object fall and picked up ajchutes” hovering in the air

caught fire and burned with-
out apparent cause.

Still another farmer in the
same vicinity
heard an explosion, watched|here,

Mrs.

Duncan and several
friends tried to pursue the
object, “coneshaped and
silver looking,” in a car
and it appeared to halt
near the Salisbury commu-
nity 5 miles south of Mem-
phis. As they drew near,
however, it swept away at
high speed.

J. W. Hatley, a farmer in,
the Brice community 21
miles west of here, and three}
other men told of watching|
minutes later as something,
“about 20 feet long, 4 to 8
feet wide and shaped like a
cigar” plunger to earth.

Mysterious Sky Objects Have Texans in Dither |

batteries on the outside.”

(The control tower at Greater
|Pittsburgh Airport said it spot-
by East| (Air Force headquarters at/ted no UFOs on its radar

“It was big enough to
carry a man, and I got the
feeling that it did,” Hatfield
recounted.

Hatley and one of his com
Panions went to notify ‘a
thorities, leaving two other)

It bore no markings, they|men on guard. The strange}
said, and “appeared to havelobject started smoking, burst}
radios and about 20 smailjinto flame and burned, Hat
ley reported.

“It’s flying-saucer-sighting time and I'm determined to s¢e one!”
ying: sae)

3-25-66

ings in a nationwide Gallup sur-
vey of the American people on’
this subject, when survey per-
centages are translated into
numbers of people.

Since late in the 1940's, sci-
entists and military officials
have been investigating R-
dreds of reported sightingdiit
unidentified flying objects
recent rash of sightings promgpt-
ed a Congressional hearing ast
month and also this special @ r-
vey.

How do typical Americans §>1
about flying saucers? How mmy
people have seen them? Are!
they real or imaginary? Do peo-
ple believe there is life, as we
Imow it, on other planets?

More than 150 Gallup Poll In-
terviewers have been out qUes-
tioning typical Americans—men
and women, people of all ages
in all educational levels and in
every region of the nation. Tabu-
lation of their’ statements and
views reveals the following:

First, almost everyone (96
per cent) has at least heard or.
Tead something about flying
saucers, For something so high-
ly publicized as these. objects,
this finding may, at first, not
seem unusual. However, in
terms of the history of the Pub-
lic’s awareness of other itci-
dents or events, this figure is
extraordinarily high. In fact,
penser sani ara, rai Bem oe Sis

cause of
Harold

greenish

startled
cently:
“Tt wi
morning,
suddenly

ringing

experien:

but I knew it couldn’t be be-

last June when he was driving
through Topeka, Kansas:

“Tt was very late — about
2:30 in the morning. I saw this
round-shaped object in the sky
Jahead of me. It was extremely
lbright and I could notice a

stopped the car and got out, it
had disappeared.”
A New Jersey housewife was

bright light outside. I got up
and looked out the window. The
whole area seemed to be lit up|
like a phosphorous fire. I could
hear strange sounds, like the

sounds strange,
day several people about 20
miles away reported a similar

actly the same time.”

the way it moved.”

that nearly all of the reported’
‘saucer” sightings are easily
Stoops tells of the time/explained, as meteors, weather
balloons, swamp gasses, planets,
ete., more Americans think they|sightings
are “real” than believe they
cent (or about half of the U.S,
adult population) hold this opin-
ion, while 29 per cent describe|school background, or less.
hue. By the time Ijthem as “a figment of the imag-
ination.” The rest cannot make
up their minds.

This represents quite a change

without

during the night re-jin public attitudes toward the|how they describe them:

relates, “I was
awakened by a very

of bells. I know it
but the next

ce and at almost ex-

credibility of “flying saucers”| 1)
about three in the|since a Gallup survey conduct-

Experimental

projects,
Alr Force tests

Sheriff Aides
Chase. A UFO;
Were ‘Close’

RAVENNA, Ohio (AP)—“We
were close, closer than I ever
want to be again,” said a depu-
ty sheriff who chased an un-
identified flying object from
Ohio into Pennsylvania.

Hundreds of persons in both
states reported seeing the “bril-
liant and shiny” object early
Sunday morning.

Police Chief Gerald Buchert
of Mantua, about eight miles
north of Ravenna, said he took
a picture of the object from his
front yard but the Air Force

flying saucers it is important to/life, as we know it, on other
note that while most of the re-|planets?
ported sightings have been ex-|
plained, according to Air Force|lieve that intelligent life must
reports, there are still manylexist elsewhere in the universe,
y explanation. |because the statistical odds are
“a i n i Persons with college training|large that there are millions of
are “imaginary.” Forty-six per|are more likely to believe in|planets in-the universe enough
the reality of flying saucers/like our own to support life, as
than are persons with a.high|we know it.

Among those persons who be-|per cent) who participated in
lieve flying saucers have an ex-|this survey said they believe
planation, (that is, those whojlife does exist on other planets.
think they are “‘real”’), here is

told him not to release it.

Many scientific authorities be-

One person in every three (34

education are most inclined to

Again, persons with the most! |

believe in the existence of intel-
ligent life on other planets. /
———*

THE SHEBOYGAN PRESS, Monday, April 18,1965

Buchert said
“two table saucers put togeth-
er.”

Portage County Deputy Sher
iff Dale Spaur said he and his
partner, W.L. Neff,

cars and chased it 86 miles for
an hour and a half, from near
Ravenna to Conway, Pa., near
Pittsburgh.

Spaur said he clocked it: at
speeds up to 103 miles per hour.
From the, ground Spaur said .it
looked like the head of a flash-
light, about 40 feet wide, and 18
feet high.

Spaur said the lines of the ob-
ject were very distinct. “‘
body had control over it,” he
said. “It wasn’t just floating
around. It can maneuver.”

B
x.

{t looked like |

“were |
close” to the object in separate |

4|lice sent three squad cars but
7| officers reported the. object was

| not visible from the road.

Van Horn said he saw: three
similar objects in- the air Fri-
day night. He said William Vi
|cent, coordinator of a ham rad-
io club. of some 40 youths, has
{reported several UFO sightings
in this area during thé past 10
days.
| Van Horn said he could not
establish the object’s shape.

“Through thé glasses. it was
| either round or oblong,” he said.

a

|“I think that what makes the||
‘light on these things change}| Douglas J. Harvey said deputies

ported the incident to the
Tioga County Sheriff's De-
partment, curious people
visited his farm by the dozen.

‘They fheluded men who
said they were from govern-
ment agencies and others who
identified themselves as offi-
cials of the IBM Space Gui-
dance Center in nearby Owe-
go, the farmer said. Most
were just residents who
wanted to see the landing spot
for themselves.

One man who also claimed

TKnow WhatiSaw’;
Egg-Shaped,

Seema

GARY WILCOX

to be a saucer-seer told Mr.
Wilcox he had hitchhiked from
Massachusetts to talk to him.
Other spaceship fans tele-
phoned him and urged him to
join their organizations.

But Mr. Wilcox, who pro-
fesses he only wants to mind
his own business and make
a living, steered clear of such
affiliations.” He had the tele-
phone removed from his
dairy barn because it was
ringing so often he couldn’t
of up with the chores, he
said.

If any responsible agency
ever determined exactly what
happened in that remote corn-
er of his farm last spring, he
has yet to hear about it.

Mr. Wilcox did not ‘seem
particularly happy to see a
reporter show up at his farm.
one morning last week. He
wasn’t rude, either.

When the reporter arrived,

Hynek’s role is scientific con-
|| sultant to the Air Force’s ‘“‘Proj-
}}ect Blue Book,” the official
|| label of the Air Force program
|| to track down reports of un-
|| identified flying objects.
| Authorities and crowds of
curious residents braved thun-
dershowers Monday night to
comb the swampy area near
Ann Arbor where the object was
seen Sunday night.

Washtenaw County Sheriff

|

colors is that they are rotating|/spent most of the night search-

| in a circular motion.”

Van Horn was called by girls

at the dormitory. The co-eds
reported the object alternately
{glowed red, white, blue and
| other colors.
They said it rose up and
|down, appearing to stop its
| ascent and sink again just when
it was about to move into the
glow from .a nearby airport
beacon light.

Its vertical and horizontal
movements were too fast for
any airplane, the girls said.
| The announcement that Hynek
|was being called in came from
| Selfridge, a base near Detroit
|which dodged newsmen’s _in-
| quiries Monday about the object
seen in a swamp near Ann
Arbor.

ing and checking out reports
|from persons who thought they
had spotted the object again.

The investigation began when
|-at least 12 policemen and 40
| other persons said they watchae

a weird flying object,
| by four sister ships, land
the swamp late Sunday night-:
The sighting was only
most recent of several in Sdg-
| thern Michigan and other pats
joe the nation during the Pagt
few weeks,
The eyewitness accounts a
Sunday night’s incident includgg
a man who said he and his
ran to within 500 yards of}
mysterious object which hd§-
ered above the ground thep
shot away at their approach.

,, the Ventura County ‘(Callf)

|

{

Star-Free Press
4-1-66

Two In County .
Claim They Saw
‘Glowing’ UFO

At least two Ventura County
people saw a glowing object
‘Wednesday night, shooting
downward over the Point Mugu
area. ;

Mrs. Marvin Miller of 196 Pa-
cific St., Ventura, said today
that she spotted the object at
8:55 p.m. Wednesday as she and
her husband were returning’
\from Los Angeles.

She said that she noticed it
las they were driving through
Thousand Oaks. “‘It looked like
an airplane in a dive at first,”
Mrs. Miller said, “but then I
saw a glowing tail and sparks
began to shoot off. This dispell-
ed. my idea about an airplane.”

At the same time, about. 20
miles to the north, a Fillmore
man saw what appeared to be
a plane. “It was in a dive,”
said Alvin Caples of 831 Olive
St.,.Fillmore,

Craft

the farmer was ina -hayloft,
pitching down feed for the
noontime snack of his 60 cows.

vwaventuaagansceastnservececaaroceeeareet

“I only have so much time
to get this work done, so I
can’t stop,” he said. “This is
the kind of work you should
be doing,” he joked. “Tak-
ing care of 60 cows and work-
ing at another job, too.”

Mr. Wilcox has an afternoon
and winory job as janitor at
Berkshire School.

“I don’t. know where all
these stories are ing from
now. I thought it was all over
last year, but:now everybody
is talking again.

“The best one is about me
ker g in a New York City hos-

ital with radiation burns.

eople have said they heard
it on the radio. I’ve never
been in a hospital in my life.

“Then some woman put in
the newspaper that there was
no grass growing where that
thing landed. There was
never much growing there.
But there’s corn now.

‘ “Nobody ever talked to me
about these things.. They just
keep telling stories.”

In answer to a question, Mr.
Wilcox said his sighting of
the ip dey lecgad si and its
crew and the widespread
ulation over the report han not
hurt his personal life.

“{ just don’t worry about
it. I know what I saw and
other people have seen things.
I even thought somebody was
playing a joke on me, but I
was in the service for six
years and not even jet planes
take off that fast.”

If he had it to do over
again, would he keep the in-
cident a secret? q

“No. I've got nothing. to
hide. I wonld report it. If I
saw andther one-today I’d do
the same thing. Then people
would say I’m crazy.”

Mr. Wilcox, who is un-
married and lives in the vil-
lage, feeds and cares for the
stock in the mornings. A man
whose family lives in. the
homestead of the  300-acre
farm does the milking. Mr,
Wilcox also owns & farm near
Owego where he grows feed
crops, he said.

He gives the impression that
he would like to believe the
whole episode was a joke of
some type, yet knows it
wasn’t. He said he thinks that
eventually the explanation will
be. supplied, to him and the
rest. of the world.

“A man down in Berkshire
says he saw something like
this recently, too. I’m not the
only one.”

The two human-like, crea,
tures whose features were hid-
den under uniforms and hoods,
may not have ‘been space
travelers, he said.

But he has no better ex-
planation.
On his way home, the. re-
ter stopped ata diner and
invited flying saucer conver-
sation from the waitress,
“That's: where they say it
landed,” she said, pointing
| out the window. “Right over
the hill. I don’t think he was
stretching the truth. He’s a
reliable man and if he says
he saw it, I believe him. They |
say there’s a spot up there |
eee oe ee ee et
cause of the. fuel it was us-
ing.”

OWTIONAL FORM NO. 10 ‘10-106
MAY 1962 EDITION ‘

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
UNITED sTaTE@overnment

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI : 10/3/66

a : SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-2442-40/).

SUBJECT: FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL,
OFFICIAL JOURNAL OF THE
AMALGAMATED FLYING SAUCER
CLUBS OF AMERICA, INC.
IS - MISCELLANEOUS
The Philadelphia Division by letter dated 9/22/66, | 2
furnished the Los Angeles Division with Issue No. 24 datea #”"°" °
July, 1966, entitieg “FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL", which is
the official journal of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs
of America, Inc. The Philadelphia Division received the
magazine from Mr. JARVIS H&COOPER, IRS, 401 North Broad Street,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 9/19/66. “Mr. COOPER stated he
subscribed to the magazine because his son had exhibited an
interest in flying saucers and outer space. He said that on
pages 2 and 3 of Issue No. 24 was an article which he believed
expounded the Communist Party (CP) line.

For the pe eae yee of the Bureau, the International
Headquarters of the<Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America,
Inc, is located at\ 2004 North Hoover Street, Los Angeles,
California. The article, on pages 2 and 3, were allegedly La
“written by Master KALEN-LI RETAN, Head of the pl KORENDOR,
which was receiyed ‘on 5/4/66 by special directional short-wave
radio by BOB RENAUD.
| 1
The indiees of the Los Angeles Division contain no
information identifiable with RENAUD, and no investigation has
ever been conducted on captioned organization. poo. www, mgt Re
Peckio a Sy abs a

No further action is contemplated in this matter
by the Los Angeles Office, UACB. \\h RE
The foregoing is furnished to the Bureau for
information. P
J uh RE
2 - Bureau ( Cue -1
1 - Los Angeles
JST: gcw
(3)

1 0Cl aly

October 17, 1966

go ks BSF CE 4SO0

CA113

Mr. Paul L Wright
1331 Lucile Avenue, Southwest
Atlanta, Georgia 30310

Dear Mr. Wright:
Your letter of October 9th has been received.

With respect to your inquiry, matters pertaining to
sightings of Unidentified Flying Objects or‘Flying Saucers are not
within the jurisdiction of the FBI.

Inasmuch as your communication is of interest to
another governmental agency, I am referring a copy of it to the
Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General, De-
Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333.

Dili

OCT 17 1966 Sincerely yours,
COMM.FR} J. Edgar Hoover

NOTE: We have had one outgoing to correspondent dated 3/10/66 in
response to his letter regarding the TV program, "The FBI." A
copy of his letter is being sent by form to the Department of the Air
Force.

Force

have been

For TH

report

officer in
family trouble
by people because
a fellow police

I” see’ by +t
Air Force is
is so then we

the terrible position

in the 1930's

Ll wish

any Y.F.Q!

may be a

one wondering tt
have ta ,lked to 7
sig tings and

+ 1
report it to the

T ry
Uele ee

7
ig Dade

>
17] r

Agents have
denied by

idiculed
salong with

begining PF

putt

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 |
5010-196 %

. "UNITED STATES eet

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI . 10/19/66

To .. 3
thier SAC, SAN FRANCISCO
O -~

susjectr; UNIDENTIFIED FLYING/ OBJECTS
is.- xX <a

Re Bureau Bulletins No. 57 dated 10/1/47, and No.
38 dated 3/25/49, entitled "FLYING DIScs,"

Enclosed are copies of an article entitled "Armed
Forces - Focus on UFO", which was published in the This World
supplement of the San Francisco Examiner & Chronicle, Sunday,

October 16, 1966,

This article deals with the current controversy over
the existence or nonexistence of flying saucers or Unidentified
Flying Objects (UFOs), and quotes Michigan's Congressional

into UFOs; also it announces that the Air Force, which is
charged with investigating UFOs, has commissioned the Univer-
sity of Colorado and Physics Professor EDWARD

conduct an in-depth study st of $300,400,

months, at an estimated cost of $300,q@00. f
NIVERS 4 OF OLORADA >

The article also points out that since Iast summer
pressure has been mounting for the establishment of an inde-
pendent, civilian controlled investigative agency to look into
the UFO problem.

Also, for the Bureau's information, there was re-
cently published (first printing June 1966) a book entitled
"Flying Saucers - Serious Business", Lyle Stuart, Inc.,
publishers, authored by Frank Edwards. This book is now in
its third edition and is available in paperback, published
by Bantam Books, and it is probably a contributing factor to
the current controversy;

In this book author Edwards points out that flying
saucers were observed in thé spring of 1946, in Scandinavia

and Russia (which he points out is about a year from the date
\\of the testing of the eee yk atomic bomb), and the book

1 - Denver (Encl,

4} 1 - San Francisco ;
DET:1ms 70 3s OCT-21 1966

Mi
5

(5) 4 CTs FX-114 — pict
ate

documents many reports throughout the world of UFOs since that
date, and claims that 1965 was the year of the greatest number
of UFO sightings and that these were observed by multiple wit-
nesses. It is author Edwards' contention that UFOs are space
vehicles sent to observe activities on earth and the Air Force,
which is charged with the responsibility of investigating UFOs,
has deliberately withheld information and given misleading
explanations because it fears a mass panic by the public if

the public were told the truth.

The book describes UFOs as polished metal objects,
radiating heat and light (sufficient to have burned witnesses
who were too near), and emitting some force field that inter-
feres with electromagnetic instruments and power sources,
Colors range from brilliant white to dull reds and brilliant
orange. Some objects have carried blinking lights. There are
three basic shapes: 1) zeppelin-shaped ships up to 300 feet
long; 2) disk-shaped objects ranging from a few feet in dia-
meter to 100 feet, with many reported at about 30 feet diameter;
and 3) egg-shaped objects, which according to the author are
the ones most recently sighted.

According to the book, the objects move silently and
attain fantastic speeds, yet can hover motionless in mid-air;
they have been reported to land and to take off with great
speed, usually with a burst of light from the underside, which
in some cases has left the ground beneath them scorched.

Many of the persons named in the book who have re-
ported them are reliable individuals, including law enforce-
ent officers, military personnel on official duty, military
pilots, commercial airline pilots, civilian defense officials,
etc. A number of photographs of the objects have been repro-
duced in the book, some reportedly taken by reputable persons.
Many reported sightings are from atomic and missile research
areas,

Wreckage of crashed saucers has been reportedly re-
covered on at least three occasions, in one case described as
a magnesium alloy, in another as pure magnesium, and in a third
case, attributed to an official of the Canadian government, the
material was described as an exceptionally hard unknown metal,
actually a matrix of magnesium orthosilicate which contained
thousands of 15-micron metal spheres throughout, and showing
evidence of micro-meteorites on its surface,

SF 62-2927
DET: 1ms

A few witnesses have reported seeing crewmen who
hayd landed from the object: who are described as three and

2] half to four feet 1 ring what appear to be space suits
and helmets,

Author Edwards concludes this book with a prediction
e an "overt landing" or

She near future UFOs will mak
te contact with earth,

A copy of this letter is being directed to Denver,
in view of the contract awarded to Dr. EDWARD U, CONDON.

The above is being called to the Bureau's attention
in view of the press report of mounting pressure for a civilian
controlled investigative agency to handle UFO matters.

’ ARMED FORCES

Focus on UFO

Winking, blinking and nod-
ding — red lights over Pasa-
dena, blue lights over
Greensboro, silver cigars
over Detroit — people kept
seeing strange flying objects,
and.officials kept saying
nothing was out there.

But in recent years, and
particularly since last sum-
mer, the pressure had been
mounting for either a full-
scale Congressional investi-
gation or for the establish-
ment of an independent, ci-
vilian-controlled investigato-
ry agency.

It had been a big year for
Unidentified Flying Objects.
The sightings had come in
bunches, the bulk of them
last spring and summer. And
the reports had come from
all over.

“Like Neon Lamps”

Among the most intriguing
items in this year’s crop:

e At Milan, Michigan, 15
miles south of Ann Arbor,
bluish- yellow bars of light
were spotted, looking ‘‘like
neon lamps dangling in the
sky.”

e In East Delhi, Mich., a
15-year-old boy called in to
report seeing lights in the
sky alternately standing still
and moving, sometimes
flashing on and off.

e@ In Altadena and San
Marino, Calif., police switch-
boards logged dozens of calls
after a pair of red lights in
the sky were reported by
residents.

e In Toledo, Ohio, officials
at the local airport received
seven calls from persons who
said they saw a glowing ob-
ject that was red, green and
white.

e In suburban -Detroit,.a
man saw a noiseless, wing-
less, cigar-shaped flying ob-
ject. ;
-® In Bryan, Texas, resi-
dents said they heard a
star-like object purr.

o Over Valdese, N.C., a
“slowing blue thing” explod-
ed, then lit up the town like a
giant flashbulb.

Sometimes the alleged
sightings spilled over into
the bizarre. A space ship full
of little men allegedly landed
in a farm yard near Hopkins-
ville, Kentucky. The little
men glowed, and they were
described as ‘‘three feet tall,
with eyes like saucers and
hands like claws.”

A grain buyer in Nebraska
said he was invited into a
space ship where he chatted
with four men and two wom-
en. They spoke only broken
-“English—but fluent High
German which, as it hap-
pened, was the grain buyer’s
native tongue.

Silvery Cigar

Nor did America have any
corner on the UFO market.
In Northern Ireland, Tom
Hutchinson saw a saucer
drop into a peat bog near his
home in Moneymore. It was
eggshaped, three feet in di-

i

4

UPI Telenhoto

DR. CONDON

Saucer-watcher

cineca ra

‘ameter, 18 inches high. It be-

gan to spin and Hutchinson

‘ grabbed it, He was carrying

it to the police, who de-
scribed him as “‘level-headed
and God-fearing,’’ when the
thing twisted out of his hands
and got away.

And in Warminster, Eng-
land, a city council worker
said he saw a silvery cigar
shape drifting over the vil-
lage downs. After a time, he
said, it seemed to stretch.
Then it seemed to divide
amidships with a flash of or-
ange light, although there
was no noise.

Flaming Object

Not all the sightings could
be easily written off as the
phantasmagoria of kooks,
eranks and drunks. And, un-
less one subscribed to a theo-
ry of mass hallucination, it
was difficult to explain away
simultaneous sightings con-
firmed by many rational wit-
nesses — such as the flaming
object that was seen last
April by thousands of East
Coast residents from Wash-
ington to Boston and even
temporarily disrupted a ball
game between the Chicago
White Sox and the Wash-
ington Senators in Wash-
ington, D. C.

Or the incident in Hills-

dale, Michigan last March, in
which a Civil Defense Direc-
tor, an assistant dean, and 87
coeds reported that they had
seen a glowing object zip
past their college dormitory
and hover in a swamp for
hours. Witnesses said they
watched from the second
floor of the Hillsdale College
girls dormitory as the object —
wobbled, wavered, glowed
eerily and once zipped right
at a dormitory window be-
fore stopping suddenly.

A Meteor?

The Air Force, charged
with investigating every one

This World, Sunday, October 16, 1966

ENCLOSUR

S. F. Sunday Examiner & Chronicte ©

of the 11,000 sightings since
1947, did have -some ex-
planations. “The mysterious
flaming object in the East

eo

was “probably a meteor.’’

As for Michigan's much-
publicized and plentiful
unidentified flying objects,
they turned out to be
monkeyshines instead of
moonships: ‘Unidentified
college boys’’ playing pranks
with flares to frighten the
girls in the dormitories,
came the august report from
a distinguished astronomer
called in by the Air Force to

investigate the Hillsdale af-_

fair.

Every report of a ‘‘flying
saucer” had ostensibly been
checked out by the Air
Force’s special squad known
as ‘Project Blue Book,” al-
though the staff was woefully
small. Of the 10,147 sightings
Since 1947, the Air Force
insisted that only 646 remain
unexplained — and most of
these because of insufficient
information. The others have
been attributed to planes,
balloons, astronomical
causes, missiles, swamp gas,
meteors, fireworks and, in
some cases, to hallucinations
and psychological reasons.

Ball Lightning?

Philip Klass, avionics edi-
tor of Aviation Week & Space
Technology magazine,
recently proposed some other

explanations. Klass, an
electronics engineer, said a
form of ‘‘ball lightning,’’ gen-
erated by high tension power
lines, could explain the phe-
nomena.

Many of the sightings, said
Klass, occurred along or very
near high-tension lines where
luminous balls of ionized air
could be generated under
certain conditions.

‘No Threat’

The main _ conclusions
reached by the Air Force
were:

e “No unidentified flying
objects reported, investigat-
ed and evaluated by the Air
Force have ever given any in-
dication of a threat to our
national security.”

e@ “There has been no ey-

“dence submitted to or discov-

ered by the Air Force that
sightings represent techno-
logical developments or prin-
ciples beyond the range of
present day scientific knowl-
edge.” :

© ‘“‘There has been no evi-
dence that sightings catego-
rized as unidentified are ex-
traterrestrial vehicles.”

Major Donald Keyhoe,
however, was unconvinced.
Major Keyhoe, USMC (re-
tired), director of the Nation-
al Investigations Committee
on Aerial Phenomena (NI-
CAP), a private space watch-
ing organization, accused the
Air Force of conducting a
long-term whitewash on the
UFO question.

It was Keyhoe’s theory
that the Air Force was with-
holding information for fear
of causing public panic.
UFOs, insisted the Major,
who had never seen one, were
of extraterrestrial origin an_
the Air Force feared that the

a aioe! 5 Se.

public could not accept this
knowledge. “‘They won't give

——

é

you details,”’ he complained.
“If they did, many of their
explanations would fall flat.”

And Keyhoe could also
claim a powerful ally in
Michigan’s Gerald Ford, the
House Republican leader,
who suggested it would be ‘“‘a
very wholesome thing” for
Congress to look into uniden-
tified flying objects. Such an
investigation. Ford suggest-
ed. would make the Ameri-
can people ‘feel better.”

Study in Depth

Whether or not that was so,
the Air Force last week took
definite steps to make itself
feel better. Fed up with in-
vestigating reports of glow-
ing, flying, zooming, wink-
ing, awesome, blinking,
streaking, hovering things,
the Air Force last week de-
cided to bail itself out of all
responsibility for future con-
clusions concerning UFOs.

The Air Force announced

that it had commissioned the
University of Colorado to
conduct an ‘‘in-depth” study
of flying saucers for the next
18 months. The director of
the study (expected to cost
$300,000) would be Dr. Ed-
ward U. Condon, former di-
rector of the National Bureau
of Standards, and now a
ta: professor at Colora-
0.

To satisfy the skeptics, and
insure the study’s objectivi-
ty, Colorado would select
several other universities to
take part in the independent
investigation, with about 100
scientists participating,

And in case that wasn’t
enough, the National Acade-
my of Sciences also agreed
to appoint a panel to review
the Colorado report. ;

“~~

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106
UNITED STATES Aa ;
Memorandum

Mr. Wick DATE: 10-24-66

FROM: M.CA,/Jongs il

SUBJECT: a . RK ) Kp KHt<
_FREE-LANCE WRITER Va hk yA
NK
t

4811 ILLINOIS AVENUE, NORTHWEST
WASHINGTON, D.C,

On October 21, 1966, captioned individual telephonically
contacted the Bureau and spoke with SA Thomas B. Coll of the Crime
Research Section,

BS
He advised that he is a free-lance writer and is working
on a story for a TV production concerning unidentified flying objects,
He stated that he has been in Met Roel contact with a former Air Force

officer who uses the alias of M oel concerning unidentified flying
objects and that it is the TV producer's intention to use this individual
in the forthcoming TV show. He advised that Noel is not the individual's
true name and inquired as to whether the FBI could advise him of Noel's
real identity.

Moss was advised that the FBI could not be of any
assistance to him and that all information in FBI files is confidential,
He was also advised that the investigation of unidentified flying objects /—
is not, and never has been, a matter within the investigative jurisdiction
of the FBI,

Bufiles contain no information which can be identified

with Moss,
RECOMMENDATION: 57 (

f

For record a 3 v va oct 25 O66

— eo ‘
j {

‘)
1 - Mr. DeLoach yr /)
1 - Mr, wie |
1 - 62-83894 (Unidentified flying objects) _ Y,

TBC; ‘jer>(6)
wy 087311966

COMM-FBI

Eotson se 25
DeLoach =
Mohr

|
ee
\

re

Mr. J. pee

i0 Manson Place
South Kensington

Dear Mr/ Hennessey: ;

I have received your letter of November 26th.

In response to your inquiry, the policy of this
Bureau regarding the investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects
has not changed since I wrote to you on January 26, 1965. Aliso,
it is contrary to my long-standing policy to express an opinion on
such matters.

Since my prior communication to you has been
destroyed, I am enclosing another for your files and trust this
wili be of help to you in reconstructing your records.

Sincerely yours,

. ar Hoov:

Enclosure

1 - London - Enclosure
1 - Foreign Liaison Unit - Enclosure

NOTE: Bufiles disclose one prior letter from correspondent and
a repky, made to him 1-26-65.

a tt ‘

(5) ww ee

MAIL ROOM PS TELETYPE unit L_]

« @ > el
ASSOCIA TE MEMBER OF THE AMERICA TITUTE 10 MANSON PLACE
OF AERONAUTICS & ASTRONAUTICS

OFF QUEENSGATE
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL INVESTIGATIONS

COMMITTEE ON AERIAL PHENOMENA SOUTH KENSINGTON
LONDON, S.W.7

TELEPHONE: KENSINGTON 4200

W + AQNcc
Nase -
November, (

Edrar ass Hoover,
Director,
Washington, D.C.

Dear Sir,

About two years ago or so I wrote to vou and

asked you, to the best of my recollection, why agents

of

you Bureau investigated reported landings of
unidentified flying objects and whether data regarding
their findings was available. You replied saying that
acents investigated these cases to determine whether

any Federel law had been broken and that their

findings were confidential as were all other FBI records.

Since receiving your letter which was pleced in my
records, many of my records includins your letter were
destroyed recently in a fire at my home and I would
therefore be grateful if, for the purnoses of my new
records, confirm your letter of 1964/5 if the situation

+

is still the same.

REC- 62 i lav KY
In addition, I would be pleased to learn what
opinion is of the unidentified flyine objects. If
decline, I would appreciate that it

position.

Nee 3 tiles reflect that an unidentified flying object was sighted
neax New Mexico, on April 24, 1964. Captain Holder, United
States ¥ * Force, along with SA D. Arthur Byrnes, Jr., interviewed
one connie Zamora of the Socorro Police Department who had observed
the phenomena. SA Byrnes typed such a statement from Zamora which
was later included ina memo for dissemination. The Albuquerque
Office did not conduct any investigation other than to keep the Bureau
advised and maintain liaison with the Air Force. This is apparently
the situation to which the correspondent is referring. Bufiles contain
no information identifiable with the correspondent.

WA

¢

December 21, 1966

Rec-4 (2 2-
ci ad ae

we

Chief of Police
Princeton, West Virginia 24740

My dear Chief:
Your letter was received on December 19th,

Although I appreciate the motives prompting you to
write me, unidentified flying objects do not come within the scope
of this Bureau's authority, Iam, however, referring a copy of your
letter to the Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector Gen-
eral, Department of the Air Force, Washington, D. C., whose
agency has conducted related studies,

Sincerely yours,
@. Edgar Hoover

1 - Pittsburgh - Enclosure
__Attention SAC: Correspondent is not identifiable in Bureau indices,

NOTE: Copy of incoming sent to OSI by form.
DCL:sep (4)

f

VY

Ly

Vv

December 27, 1966

> =
Miss Judith Goodman
12 Williams Street
Bradford, Pennsylvania 16701

Dear Miss Goodman:

I have received your letter of December 20th.

Although I would like to be of assistance, matters
pertaining to Unidentified Flying Objects are not within the juris-
diction of the FBI.

Inasmuch as your communication is of interest
to another governmental agency, I am referring a copy of it to
the Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General,
Department of the Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edear Hoovwer

NOTE:.. Bufiles contain no record of correspondent. A copy of
her letter was sent to the Department of the Air Force by form
referral this date.

BGH:gda (3)
ZL:
1

- TOLSON

OFFICE OF DIRECTOR » DELOACH

» >
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVEsTIGA’ Wn . MOHR z
UNIVED STATES DEPARTMENT OF s@STICE wic
» CASPER —

- CALLAHAN ————

(December 23, 1966) >i ave
Judith Goodman . GALE
12 Williams St. qa ee ae
Bradford, Pa. 16701 . SULLIVAN

- TAVEL
Pa

SU EL 7, . TROTTER

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover A -
4936 30th Place MISS HOLMES —
Washington, B.C. MRS, METCALF

MISS GANDY

Dear Mr. Hoover,

I am doing my Science Fair project on

U.F.O.s. Could you please send me any and
all imformation you have on this subject?

would also appreciate any imformation you
may have as to how many planes we have lost —<
chasing U. F.O.s. Why has this imformation
been kept a secret? Why is it important to
‘national defense ?

Also would you happen to know if any other
sides ourself have spotted U. F.O.s in
2s?

Judith Goodman

iki $6 "am DEC 99 1968

/_—i

U

i
i

0-20 (Rev.

1-26-66) Tolson 4%
 ] é eLoach
M
th,

~ Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale

V’Re

: ]
Trotter

Lb Tele. Room —___
/ Holmes: —
Gandy

eC

RR
4

NG SAUCER)
OLO.--DR. EDWARDFCONDON, HEAD OF A GOVERNMENT-
NTIFIC STUDY OF UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS (UFO), SAID
RECEIVED A LETTER TELLING HIM WHEN AND WHERE A FLYING
LAND ON EARTH, het
DON, PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO, SAID
HE WOULD WRITE TO THE MAN AND ASK HIM ON WHAT BASIS HE MADE THE
PREDICTION, 5
“HE GAVE ME THE EXACT DAT wool THE EXACT LOCATION THE SAUCER
WOULD LAND SAID IT WOULD BE MANNE D BY PERSONS FROM ANOTHER PLANET,"

CONDON SAID

WHE SUGGESTED WE CONTACT THE SPACE TRAVELERS AND MAKE FRIENDS WITE
THEM," THE UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO PROFESSOR SAID

CONDON WOULD NOT DISCLOSE THE NAME OF THE PERSON WHO: WROTE THE
LETTER, SAY WHERE THE PREDICTED LANDING WOULD TAKE PLACE OR THE DATE.

HE HID SAY IT WOULD BE SOMETIME THIS SPRING,

"I'M GOING TO ANSWER THE LETTER TO TRY AND FIND OUT WHAT THE BASIS
IS FOR THE MAN'S PREDICTION,®™ CONDON SAID, |

CONDON ALSO DISCLOSED THAT DR, ROBERT M,{LOW, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF
THE CU FLYING OBJECTS INVESTIGATION PROJECT) WAS IN THE JOPLIN,
MOe-PITTSEURGH, KANg, AREA TODAY CHECKING OUT REPORTS OF UFO»)
SIGHTINGS, 4) “

HE SAID LOW PROBABLY WOULD RETURN TO BOULDER TONIGHT. Sia
1/18--TS32!

\\ ren a1 JAN 20 1967
vo WASHINGTON CAPITAL NEWS SERVICbe==e

79 JAN 23 1967

@

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Gale
Liaison Section
Mr. McAndrews

Mr. Ware January 18, 1967

& Je

PA
~  QUNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECT

—— ee JANUARY 17, 1967 pw Wad

ad |

At 4: 10 a.M., January is, 1967, James we
212 Sharon Drive, Chesapeake, Virginia, telephone  $47~4648,
advised that he desired to report that he had observed a large
oblong-shaped object which alighted in the street in front
of him when he was on his way home from his television repair
shop, the Oak Grove T. ¥., 6424. Great Bridge Road, Chesapeake,
Virginia. He believes that he was taken into this craft which
he recalls as being made of a glass like substance and being
transparent. It was manned by several individuals who appeared
to be undersized creatures similar to members of the human
race, probably not more than 4 feet tall. They were allegedly
wearing regular trouser pants and T-Shirts. Collins believes
that he was transported by this craft for an undetermined
distance and returned to his point of take-off approximately
one hour later.

4

Collins spoke in a coherent manner although he
appeared to be under certain emotional strain. He claimed
he had not been drinking any intoxicants but he was unable
te account for the time between 8:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.. He
stated he was telephoning from his workshOp ‘but had no recollection
of being elsewhere between 8:90 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.

The above is being furnished for your information.

(KX

A. R. Ware, Special Investigative Division. A check of Bureau
indices did not disclose any agemibiy ig which could be identified

NOTE: Collins furnished information to night supervisor SA

with Collins. 4

ac 6i oe

VY’ |
ARW: djg nae This document contains neither
9) \

sk -

recommendations nor conclusions of
A) the FBI. It is the property of

|
FA\| ? . PBI o Pi, ae » your agency, >
\ 1 ; the FBI and is loaned to 3 ag

\' ; it and its contents are not to be ee ee

distributed outside your agency.

2 JAN 2 61967 m9 JAN 20 1967

aa

Eee 8  . eee

MAIL ROoML_] TELETYPE unit LI

™ J
riments of Publi
Ounia, ahd if} ti

rv

ad

"

a2

en

RE: PAUL L. PEYERL
INFORMATION CONCERNING

in Vienna, Austria, sometime during late 1943 or early 1944,
PEYERL also assumed the secrets pertaining to this aircraft
were captured by Allied Forces, He said this type of aircraft
was responsible for the downing of at least one American B-26
airplane, He furnished the following fuel and engine data:

",e.e-Fuel mixture of NoH4,0 in Methyl Alcohol
(CH30H) rather than ‘oxygen-holding' mixture of

hydrogen peroxide H505 in water, 7m 1,3m high two
rocket motors; smooth flow, rotary drive over 2,000
meters per second,..."

PEYERL said he copied this data from a board
located in the hanger area,

PEYERL asserted he was shot down by the British
on March 14, 1945, after having been reassigned to the
Western Front. He was held prisoner by the British in
London and later in Brussels until his release in 1946.

He departed for the United States from Bremerhaven, Germany,
on December 26, 1951; entering the United States in New
Jersey on January 7, 1952, and was subsequently naturalized
in Miami during 1958, He is presently employed as a
mechanic at Eastern Airlines, Miami, Florida. He related

he was born May 3, 1924, in Austria,

PEYERL stated he has withheld this information
because he assumed the United States possessed it. He has
become increasingly concerned because of the unconfirmed
reports concerning a similar object and denials the United
States has such an aircraft. He feels such a weapon would
be beneficial in Vietnam and would prevent the further loss
of American lives which was his paramount purpose in contacting
the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

PEYERL reiterated he has the original negatives
of both photographs, He said the shots were taken at a thirty
second time exposure,

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is
loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

q »

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 69..9011328 Miami, Florida
June 8, 1967

RE; PAUL L. PEYERL
INFORMATION CONCERNING

On April 26, 1967, PAUL L. PEYERL, 1430 Southwest
76th Street, Miami, Florida, appeared at the Miami Office and
furnished the following information relating to an object,
presently referred to as an unidentified flying object, he
allegedly photographed during November, 1944:

Sometime during 1943, he graduated from the
German Air Academy and was assigned as a member of the
Luftwaffe on the Russian Front. Near the end of 1944, he
was released from this duty and was assigned as a test
pilot to a top secret project in the Black Forest of Austria.
During this period he observed the aircraft described above.
It was saucer shaped, about twenty-one feet in diameter,
radio controlled, and mounted several jet engines around the
exterior portion of the craft. He further described the
exterior portion as revolving around the dome in the center
which remained stationary. It was PEYERL's responsibility
to photograph the object while in flight. He asserted he
was able to retain a negative of a photograph he made at 7,000
meters (20,000 feet). A Xerox copy of the negative, as furnished
by PEYERL, appears on the last page of this communication,
Also, ® still photograph he allegedly made "at the risk of ny
life", illustrating the object parked in a hanger, appears on
the last page.

According to PEYERL, the above aircraft was designed
and engineered by (First Name Unknown) KUEHR, a German engineer
whose present whereabouts is unknown to him. He assumed KUEHR
was taken into custody by Allied Forces upon the termination
of hostilities. PEYERL stated unsuccessfully attempted
to avoid the German draft, but was apprehended by the Gestapo

ly 1944.
to this aircraft
He said this type of aircraft
American B-26
in Methyl Alcohol
7a .1,3m high two
rotary drive over 2,000

ing late 1943 or ear

pertaining
in water.
flov,
» Miami, Florida. He related
in Austria,

It is the

agency; it and its

downing of at least one

ago
rat
4"

assumed the United States possessed it.

increas.

May 3, 1924,

PEYERL said he copied this data from a board
PEYERL stated he has withheld this information

in the hanger area,
This document contains neither

*. oseFuel mixture of

}:

r

cei ite

also assumed the secrets
were captured by Allied Forces,
was responsible for the
sirplane.

buted outside your agency.

He furnished the following fuel and engine data:
NgH,O
(CH30H) rather than ‘oxygen-holding’ mixture of

hydrogen peroxide
rocket motors;
meters per second...."

g
E
4
:
E

second time exposure.
conclusions of the FBI.
leaned to your
distri

located

@... STATES DEPARTMENT A Us

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

fi Reply, Please Refer to
File No.
62<0~-11328 Miami, Florida
dune 8, 1967

On April 26, 1967, PAUL L. PEYERL, 1430 Southwest
76th Street, Miami, Florida, appeared at the Miami Office and
furnished the following information relating to an object,
presently referred to as an unidentified flying object, he
allegedly photographed during November, 1944;

Sometime during 1943, he graduated from the
German Air Academy and was assigned as a member of the
Luftwaffe on the Russian Front. Wear the end of 1944, he
was released from this duty and was assigned as a test
pilot to a top secret project in the Black Forest of Austria.
During this period he observed the aircraft described above.
It was saucer shaped, about twenty-one feet in diameter,
radio controlled, and mounted several jet engines around t
exterior portion of the craft. He further described the
exterior portion as revolving around the dome in the center
which remained stationary. It was PEYERL's responsibility
to photograph the object while in flight. He asserted he
was able to retain a negative of a photograph he made at 7,000
meters (20,000 feet). A Xerox copy of the negative, as furnished
by PEYERL, appears on the last page of this communication,
Also, a still photograph he allegedly made “at the risk of ny
life”, illustrating the object parked in a hanger, appears on
the last page.

According to PEYERL, the above aircraft was designed
and engineered by (First Name Unknown) KUEHR, a German engineer
whose present whereabouts is unknown to him. He assumed KUEHR
was taken into custody by Allied Forces upon the termination
of hostilities. PEYERL stated KUEHR unsuccessfully attempted
to avoid the German draft, but was apprehended by the Gestapo

in Vienna, > Oe sometime during late
PEYERL also the

were captured by

was responsible for the downing of

airplane. He furnished the following fuel and engine data:

“soe-Fuel mixture of NglgO in Methyl Alcohol
(CH,0H) rather than ‘oxygen-holding’ mixture of
hydrogen peroxide in water. Ym 1,3m high two
rocket motors; flow, rotary drive over 2,000
meters per second...."

PEYERL said he copied this data from a board
lecated in the hanger area.

oyed
mechanic at Eastern Airlines, Miami, Florida. He related
he was born May.3, 1924, in Austria.

PEYERL stated he has withheld this information
because he assumed the United States possessed
become concerned

pd as no rea Blends rman Me ngs Pinte il wl a sg Mle
of American lives which was his paramount purpose in contacting
the Federal Bureau of enbsanthen (BI).

PEYERL reiterated he has the original negatives
of both photographs, He said the shots were taken at a thirty
second time exposure.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is
leaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

ee ieeke aoe

Best Possible Image

SUBJECT:

5010-108

UNITED. STATES GOVERNMENT

a

j/A As
WMemorandgy” &

DIRECTOR, FBI pate; 7/25/67
SAC, NEWARK (47-0)

UNIDENTIFIED AERIAL OBJECTS
IVAN SANDERSON, COMPLAINANT
ALLEGED IMPERSONATION OF FBI AGENTS
AND MILITARY PERSONNEL
<< IMPERSONATION

Enclosed/herewith for the Bureau are Chapters
13 and 14 of a book now being prepared by. IVAN}QRANDERSON,
The book relates to\Unidentified Aerial Objects (UAO) which
SANDERSON states will soon be published in magazine form on
a nation-wide basis. | —-< /\

SANDERSON, who claims to have written several books,
is a graduate of Oxford in England and has various degrees.
He states that he has appeared on the Gary Moore Show and
other types of television projects. He relates that he has
been extremely concerned about UAOs and in the submitted
material he eludes briefly to the FBI and the CIA.

There does not appear to be a violation of the
Impersonation Statute or any other violation over which this
Bureau now has jurisdiction. The enclosed information is
submitted only for the Bureau's interest and no further
action is ontenn Area Newark.

2 - Bureau Enecsno™
1 - Newark V
NSI: JUP

(3)

iy i Hole fue 2267
NOT RECORDED een
152 JUL 28 1967

— —- SA

6/2 wy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

QRIGLNAL ‘PILED IN

August 24, 1967

Yoo

REC- 14 \
Mr. Theodore Gray Hullett
561 37th Avenue.
San Francisco, California 94121

Dear Mr. Hullett:

Mr. Hoover received your letter of
August 19th, with enclosure, and wanted you to know
he appreciates your best wishes. He asked me to
thank you for sending the publication you forwarded
to him.

Sincerely yours,

| MAILED 19

| AUG 24 1967

\ COMM - FBI Helen W. Gandy
a Secretary

NOTE: Bufiles contain nothing identifiable regarding correspondent
and no record of the publication, \‘ufo contact." Inasmuch as
correspondent might possibly- ube letter from the Director in some
manner to promote this a ape an in-absence reply is deemed
advisable.

Fraternity of
Cosmic
Sons and Daughters

IGAP Information Service:

UFO CONTACT.

Editors:
Mr Ronald Caswell,
309 Carters Mead,
Harlow, Essex,
England.

Major H. C. Petersen

(responsible for publication and subscription),
Bavnevolden 27, Maaloev, Sj.,

Denmark.

ORGANIZATION.

Headquarters:
The George Adamski Foundation,
314 Lado de Loma Drive,
Vista, California, U.S.A.

IGAP Representatives in: —
America, Australia, Austria
Belgium, Brazil
Canada
Denmark
England
Finland
Germany
Holland
Indonesia
Japan
Mexico
Norway
Sweden, Switzerland.

Subscription: (Calendar Year)

Surface mail $3.50, £ 24 Sh. per annum
Airmail $5.00 per annum

Single copy $1.00 (s.m.)

(or equivalent in other currencies).

PLEASE NOTE! - COPYRIGHT IGAP

MATERIAL FROM UFO CONTACT MAY
ONLY BE USED AFTER WRITTEN PER-
MISSION IS OBTAINED FROM:

IGAP Information Service,
Bavnevolden 27,
Maaloev SJ., Denmark.

The Editors.

Purpose and scope

This magazine has been dedicated to
MR. GEORGE ADAMSKI.

Mr. Adamski launched the IGAP — International Get
Acquainted Program — in 1959, based on the philosophy
that people in all parts of the world should be given
the opportunity of knowing what is going on everywhere
in the field of flying saucers. His hope was that as
many as possible would discover the truth of the pre-
sent age and turn to face the time to come — to learn
to accept, through conviction, the fact that we are all
citizens of the Cosmos and Children of the Cosmic Pow-
er whose Laws run through the entire Cosmos. These
Laws we can learn to comprehend through study and
understanding of the »Science of Life« brought to our
attention by the presence of friendly visitors from other
worlds.

The magazine is sent to civil and military authorities
all over the world, to leaders in the United Nations, in
the Vatican, in scientific circles, and to Press, radio
and TV authorities.

The purpose of this magazine is to bring to every-
one, everywhere, news of events from all quarters of
the globe in all its varied aspects. This means any news
that can possibly be of value in our endeavour to bring
to mankind an understanding of what is going on in our
world all the time. We shall try to detect any and every
move in the direction of that truth which we have acc-
epted, but which is not yet officially accepted or rec-
ognized in broader circles:

1. People from other worlds in our system are visit-
ing our planet.

. People from other worlds are in contact with cer-
tain political and scientific circles in East and West.

- People from all walks of life, official and unoffi-
cial, all over the world, have been contacted by
people from other worlds; such contacts have been
kept secret so far.

. The philosophy brought to the world by Mr. Geo-
rge Adamski is considered and aid helping to un-
cover the truth of our origin and our future destiny.

The magazine will make no attempt whatsoever to
fight anyone, in spite of any action which might be laun-
ched against it. Only the truth, whatever its guise, will
be brought to bear, to allow each to decide for himself
what he can and will accept in this wonderful world on
his march forward to new experiences.

This magazine is non-political, non-religious, non-sec-
tarian and non-profit-making. We hope that you may
profit from reading it, and that you will tell as many
as possible about it, — especially if you find it of value.
Please write to us if youfind it without value or if you
have any suggestions or comments to make.

Sincerely yours,
The Editors.

i

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION
GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER
GREENBELT, MARYLAND 20771

FILE ivdu,

Mr. Fred Steckling FEB 20 1967

Alexandria, Virginia 22312
Dear Mr. Steckling:

Thank you very much for your letter and for your offer to show us
your Film. I am not really qualified ts pass judgment on it, but it
would be good to have the people here at Goddard who are look at it.
May I suggest, then, that you give Mr. Penn Stevens, , a call.
He will make an appointment for you to come out to Goddard and show the
Photographic Branch and me your film. Unfortunately we have no 8mm
projector here, so I must ask you to bring your own. Thank you again
for your offer.

Sincerely yours,

Paul D. Lowman, Jr.
Geochemistry Laboratory
Laboratory for Theoretical Studies

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON 20330

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

Dear Mr. Steckling:

Your letter concerning your unidentified flying object (UFO)
film finally reached my office---Office of Information for Project
Blue Book, the Air Force UFO program.

The Air Force would be very interested in reviewing your
film. If you would get in touch with me at the Pentagon, we will
arrange a showing for any Monday which is convenient for you.
My number is meee Ct ce

Thank you for offering to show your film; I am looking forward
to hearing from you.

Sincerely,

Lt Colonel, USAF

Chief, Civil Branch
Community Relations Division
Office of Information

140 ufo contact

at home and watch your favourite television pro-
gramme. Then you will forget all about it. But do
you ever wonder what becomes of old television
programmes — apart from the ones they show on
Sundays?! Do they just fade out and vanish — or
do they keep travelling through space for ever,
perhaps to be picked up by creatures on other
planets? Fantastic — — but scientists think it is pos-
sible. After all, we here in Britain were able to
watch the Olympic Games in Japan via a satellite
in outer space.

»Some scientists even think that weird cracklings
and gibberish that occasionally come in on radio and
TV programmes are really pirate programmes from
other planets. And it is true that scientific listening
posts have taped some mighty odd sounds from
space which could come from some sort of intel-
ligence, somewhere in the Universe.

»Back in September, 1953, viewers all over Eng-
land were amazed when their screens suddenly
carried the identification card and call letters of
television station KLEE, in Houston, Texas. A freak
occurrence? — that’s what the experts thought — -
until radio engineers tried to contact KLEE, thou-
sands of miles away across the Atlantic. »Station
KLEE«, they were told, »has been off the air for
all of three years, and since that time no KLEE
identification card has been shown«. Where had
that phantom picture been for three years? Why
did it appear in England? And how did it get back
from wherever it had been. Nobody knows. So if,
tonight, you should see an unidentified object on
your screen — — -«

To Ufologists, the idea of watching a blank tele-
vision screen for such phenomena is not so far-out
— in fact, it might prove an interesting experiment
for those of us who believe such things are pos-
sible. Coupled with a telepathic request to our
space friends, it might even produce results! That
the idea has some scientific backing is shown by
a recent article which appeared in the »Ottawa
Journal” viz:

»,,Live’ TV Coming from Outer Space?«

Salt Lake City (AP) — A distinguished British astro-
nomer, Dr. Fred Hoyle, speaks of the possibility
of »live« TV from outer space. And by »live« he
means people — outer space people, people who
may live on planets like ours on the other side of
the Milky Way. Hoyle thinks it’s highly probable
that such planets and people do exist. So do a !ot
of other scientists.

»They think some of the radio waves hitting the
earth right now contain messages from those people
and there is some scientific effort under way to
decipher these messages, to tune into those radio
waves, waves which would also transmit pictures.

»What could we see and hear on this »celestial«
television? Hoyle, in his new book, »Of Men and
Galaxies« (University of Washington Press), says

some of these outer space civilizations have evolved
further than we and would therefore be able to tell
us, for example, how to avoid a nuclear war«.

The Space Brothers Keep Their Word.

As predicted by the Space Brothers in earlier
issues of Topside, they are keeping their promise
to make themselves seen more and more by the
people of Earth. From the increased number of
reports of sightings and landings of UFOs all over
the world, there can be little doubt that our space
friends are now making an all-out effort to awaken
us to their reality, and it is becoming daily more
obvious that they are prepared to use every peace-
ful means within their considerable power to achieve
their mission of goodwill. Their purpose appears to
be two-fold: (1) To prevent a nuclear holocaust
which may not only destroy Planet Earth but also
produce dire results on the entire Solar System
and perhaps even further afield in Outer Space;
and (2) To enlighten their more backward Earth
Brothers as to the urgent necessity of widening
their horizons to encompass knowledge and practice
of Cosmic Brotherhood, and the realization that
they have moral obligations not only to their own
kind but to civilizations on other planets who may
have to suffer for Earth’s irresponsible actions.

If the powers-that-be on Earth continue to cover-
up and disregard the continued efforts of the Space
Brothers, then they may expect to receive even
more startling and dramatic visitations in the near
future.

CREDIT: — COURTESY OF »TOPSIDE« — JOUR-
NAL OF THE OTTAWA NEW SCIENCES CLUB.

OUR READERS MAY BE INTERESTED TO
KNOW UFO CONTACT IS SENT TO OVER
60 NATIONAL DELEGATES AND OTHERS
AT THE UNITED NATIONS IN NEW YORK,
BESIDES MANY HEADS OF STATE OF
COUNTRIES ALL OVER THE WORLD.

SHOULD OUR READERS WISH TO OFFER
POSITIVE HELP — FINANCIAL OR OTHER-
WISE — IN SPREADING THE TRUTH OF THE
UFO-CASE, THEN THAT HELP WILL BE
VERY WELCOME.

The Editors.

ufo contact 113

EDITORIAL...

"WE ARE NOT OPPOSED TO A COURT JESTER
on the green lawns of the Royal Palace, provided he
is not taken for an astronomical philosopher — —’.

Here, with all the arrogance of the self-opinion-
ated, self-appointed judge, in words of ignorance,
mated with bigotry and begotten of an inflated ego-
tism, we see a small section of that vociferous but
often influential Press opinion which always swallows
before it chews.

The occasion was the much-publicised, much-criti-
cised audience of Queen Juliana of the Netherlands
accorded to one George Adamski of California,
U.S.A., at Il am. on May 18th 1959, at Soestdijk
Palace, near Utrecht, Holland.

The vociferous Press opinion in this instance was
of the Catholic People’s Party newspaper, ’’Die
Volkskrant’’.

We could imagine the same self-elevated journa-
list writing: "We are not opposed to a court jester
in the private apartments at the Vatican, provid-
ed — —”, on another May day, of another II a.m. au-
dience, much more secret, of much more potential
significance, four years later, when Adamski was
received at the bed-side of the dying Pope John.

Of the one audience, with a gracious First Lady,
the world’s sensation tabloids went to town. Lacking
the meat of the occasion on which to feast their
readers they gave them the bones and the offal, and
in the process they soiled and besmirched their own
honourable profession.

The second audience was spared this treatment,
and still is.

And so we can perceive how some of George
Adamski’s meetings with the famous received the
full blast of publicity, whilst others, conducted in a
secret undercurrent of diplomacy peopled with silent
couriers and intercontinental briefings, are still, very
much, "'classified’’.

Adamski was NEVER afraid of the scoffers and the
critics, still less of the faceless spokesmen in autho-
rity. With energy which had to be seen to be be-
lieved, with courage of conviction based in sure
knowledge of his own experiences, and with fortitude
distilled from the sweet and the sour of his support-
ers and his detractors, HE DIDN’T GIVE A DAMN.

He could have written ’’pot-boilers’’ of space-
fiction in his sunny California, like many of his cont-
emporaries, making a fortune from the credulous.
This is shown by the fact that his books became
world best-sellers in many languages. Yet in 12 years
he only offered TWO AND A HALF BOOKS to the
general public. Does this seem like a man who is
"on the make?”

No. Instead he pushed and shoved his way into the,
many times, inhospitable climate of ’’expert’’ analysis
and clinical dissection, saying: ’’Here is my evid-
ence, here is my story - TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT!”

AND HE DIED, DOING JUST THAT.

What kept him going for so long? What kept the
flame so bright for those 12-13 long, bitter-sweet
years? His tremendous sense of humour? YES! His
many thousands of friends and supporters the world
over? YES, THESE ALSO!

But his faith in a DIVINE INTELLIGENCE and sure
knowledge of the existence and the helpful presence
friends from other planets in space, were the Rod
of good, spiritually- and physically-healthy human
and the Staff on which he leaned, until he died.

G.A.’s "'end’’ was but a beginning. And when he
graduated” others took over.

He knew, in those last few months, that it wouldn’t
be long. Already he knew those who were going to
carry on his work. And the Brothers and the Sisters,
those friends from across the seas of space, were
busy in their task of forging new links, reshaping
the pattern of their contacts with those close to
Adamski.

AS WITH GEORGE ADAMSKI, the Brothers cont-
inue to furnish evidence of their presence in our
skies. New films, startling in their clarity, are being
provided by G.A.’s Co-workers. New accounts of
recent contact with the men and women visiting us
are evidence of their continued interest in our wel-
fare.

Here, in this issue of UFO CONTACT, you will
see more photographic presentation of ’’Unidentified
Flying Objects’. In some strange fashion, by some
peculiar ’’co-incidence’’, another of G.A.’s_ close
associates is enabled to take startling movie-film
shots of objects in the sky. With this new evidence
we shall show, too, how Adamski’s successors are
STILL pushing the experts, STILL offering for exam-
ination photographic proof of "inexplicable phenom-
ena” in the skies above us.

There are always those who are ready to jeer and
deride. This is a peculiar facet of the human psycho-
logy which stems almost solely from ignorance. But,
thank God, there are those also who, in the face of
public intolerance and apathy, are able to stand out
from the rest and say of the pioneer: ’’Give the man
his chance, let the man have his say’’.

As we have said a few words back, evidence is
still being provided of our extraterrestrial visitors’
presence on and above our planet. That this evid-
ence remains a puzzle, — or gives the impression, at
least, of remaining a puzzle — to competent "ex-
perts’’, despite public pronouncements made by the
head of Project Blue Book, the U.S.A.F.’s UFO
agency, that UFO’s are NOT from Outer Space,
("Evening Telegram’, San Bernadino, California,
February 15th 1967 — full report on Page 103, UFO
CONTACT, April issue), is shown here in the pages
of UFO CONTACT.

114 ufo contact

Once before, a gracious lady was willing, against
much advice, to listen to the sincere words of a man
who was still to battle for many years to come for
the truth which he propounded. We ask again for that
First Lady’s gracious attention to certain matters
which we believe, as in years gone by, will be of
interest to her, also today.

Our Open Letter we respectfully address to —

Her Majesty, Queen Juliana of the Netherlands.

An open Letter

SOESTDIJK PALACE,
SOESTDIJK,

HOLLAND.

To Her Majesty, Queen Juliana.
Your Majesty,

We venture to approach you on a matter which we
believe will be of some interest to you, the subject
being one of immense importance, bearing as it does
implications of a nature which might well affect in
the future every aspect of human endeavour on this
Earth.

The subject of which we speak has once before
been brought to Your Majesty's attention, and, we
understand, received careful consideration; in fact,
it is in the belief that Your Majesty has shown more
than usual interest that we make this approach to-
day.

May we, with respect, ask you to cast your mind
back 8 years. In May of 1959, Your Majesty was
pleased to request the presence of Mr. George
Adamski, of California, at Soestdijk Palace. Mr.
Adamski was at that time on a world lecture-tour.

This gentleman had an unusual story to tell. He
spoke of visitations to this planet by human beings
from outer space. He spoke of kind human beings
who had travelled in their spaceships, often called
"flying saucers”, from their home planets in our
solar system, from Venus, from Saturn, Mars and
others.

Their understanding was far ahead of our own,
their sincere interest in our welfare was part of a
philosophy of brotherhood and love for all of the
Creator’s Works.

This was George Adamski’s story.

In 1959, the subject of flying saucers was consid-
ered by the majority to be laughable. Any attempt
to discuss the possibility of beings technologically
superior to us, visiting Earth in space craft travelling
at fantastic speeds, was to dismiss all the scientific
concepts of the day. Indeed, in 1959, scientists were

JUNE 1967.

only beginning to accept the remote possibility of
some form” of life, — and a one-cell life, at that, -
existing anywhere at all outside of Earth. And any
suggestion that intelligent beings existed who had
progressed past the stages of wars and poverty and
racial intolerance, was to speak of Heaven itself.

Now, in 1967, many things have changed. The
majority still laughs, yes. But one sees in the ever-
expanding minority a level of radical but intelligent
thought which would have been branded a "heresy”
against the whole Establishment just a few years
ago. With our own greatly-increased space activity
and the near-proximity of an Earthman’s landing on
the Moon, ideas have had to change along with the
immense changes in the means of travel.

What modern science has yet to discover, how-
ever, is an antidote to the enormously swollen ego
of "Earth-man’”’ which has gained nothing from the
discoveries of Galileo other than a list of changed
astronomical data and some very basic facts con-
cerning the solar system in which we live.

What they have not yet learned from the ’’here-
tical’’ revelations of Galileo is that scientific ’’fact’’
of today is not necessarily scientific '’fact’” of to-
morrow; that they, too, these modern scientists, may
be called upon — and perhaps very soon — to change
all previous concepts of astronomical physics and
to accept that Earth-man is not, after all, alone in
the Universe.

One of the pioneers in this school of thought was
George Adamski. Since his passing, in April 1965,
others have come forward to carry on his work.

Madam, on several occasions in the years since
1959, Mr. Adamski was given the opportunity of phot-
ographing some of these space craft on movie-film.
These films have been shown widely in the United
States and in certain countries in Europe. They have
been viewed by persons in authority, including ex-
perts in many fields, as well as by millions of the
general public by way of television.

The extraterrestrial human beings of whom Mr.
Adamski spoke are still operating in the same patt-
ern. Several of his helpers have been privileged to
meet these people. New colour movies have been
taken of their ships, on occasion with the deliberate
connivance of the pilots of the craft concerned.

An American lady, Mrs. Madeleine Rodeffer, and
two Germanborn, naturalised Americans, Mr. and
Mrs. Fred Steckling, have been privileged not only
to meet these friends from other planets but they
have also been enabled to photograph the movement
of their craft on colour-film.

All of these films have been viewed by persons
in authority, including photographic experts of
the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Agency,
(NASA), and they have yet to be faulted.

Madam, the reason for our approach in this Open
Letter is this. Having heard from Mr. Adamski first-
hand of his experiences, would Your Majesty care
once more to hear of the visitations of the Brothers
and Sisters who befriended him? They have made
themselves known to others; there are courageous

ufo contact 139

messages to trusted UFO workers on Earth, and
for other specific purposes. Most of us have read
accounts written by people claiming to have recei-
ved messages, both garbled and clear, from the
Space Brothers via ham radios, tensor-coil experi-
ments, etc., or of seeing spacemen or other uniden-
tified phenomena on their television screens. There
was one amusing story of a man who fell asleep
while watching a late, late movie on television and
awoke several hours later to find himself staring
at a strange, other-world face on his TV screen!
He was so scared, he snapped off the TV set —
and sold it the next day! Then there are cases of
people hearing messages and celestial music on
their tape recorders. Only recently, Fate magazine
published a letter received from Myra Dee Hina of
Sacramento, California, in which she stated that
while attempting to record a new song she had
created with the help of numerology, i.e., »notes
forming the vibration of each word«, on a brand-
new tape bought at a local store, she proceeded
to pick the notes out on an organ and sing them
on to the tape. She goes on to say: »l then went
to turn off the tape recorder and found it had stop-
ped. | reset it and played the notes over again.
When | returned to the recorder to stop it, some
sort of a force field seemed to appear. | could
see it and feel it with my hands. It gave me the
same sensation as if | held two repelling magnets.
Wondering why such a condition existed, | stood
and let the machine run on. When | no longer felt
the force field, | ran the tape back to replay. My
voice was clear, the notes were clear — but | was
shocked beyond words when a beautiful orchestra
began playing the very theme | had created. it
lasted a long period, over 35 minutes. It is possible
that the recorder somehow picked up music out of
the air. There was no other instrument in the house,
the tape was new and | ran it around 12 o'clock
midnight. I’ve tried to repeat this strange incident
several times, but nothing has happened. In addi-
tion to the music on the tape, a voice speaks in
a language | never heard before. Several persons
who have listened to the tape say they have a weird
feeling while it is playing«.

A Warning Via Ham Radio.

While, even with an open mind, we cannot, un-
derstandably, vouch for the veracity of all these
claims, we can quote a couple of experiences of
this nature which happened to our founder, the
late Wilbert B. Smith, during his long and intensive
study of the UFO Mystery.. WBS, as most of you
know, was first and foremost a scientist, and he
never accepted anything without careful checks and
cross-checks and only by this method was he rea-
sonably sure of his ground. But undoubtedly, he
received clear-cut messages and confirmations on
a variety of scientific and philosophical matters
from his space friends, the »Boys from Topside«,
through a number of different media. One of these

sources was a local ham radio operator who, it
must be clearly stressed, knew little if anything
about Mr. Smith’s work or scientific experiments
and most of the messages he received for Wilbert
Smith, on an unidentified waveband, were complete-
ly unintelligible to him — although they made a lot
of sense to WBS.

By this means and with the usual, requested con-
firmation from other sources, Wilbert Smith received
a lot of invaluable guidance in his scientific work.
The most dramatic incident, however, occurred when
WBS and a small working party of the then Ottawa
Flying Saucer Club were preparing to test out an
experimental machine they had built. Just prior to
this test, the Boys from Topside broke into the
ham radio operator's listening, blanking out all
other stations and repeating insistently that they
had an urgent message for Wilbert Smith which
the operator was to pass on to him without delay —
and this he did. The message, couched in scientific
terms, might be translated into layman’s language
as saying that a certain flywheel in the experimental
machine would not stand the stress of the r.m.p.
about to be placed on it and that it would shatter
under the strain; precaution should be taken. Hee-
ding this advice, WBS and his co-workers built a
protective wooden covering around the machine,
after which they set it in motion and, as predicted,
the flywheel shattered, embedding the wooden
boards with its shrapnel!

Intervention on a Tape Recording.

Another strange experience occurred during an
exchange of tape recording letters between WBS
and another UFO worker in the U.S. At the time,
WBBS was in possession of certain scientific data
which the Boys from Topside had asked him to
keep confidential for the time being. Inadvertently,
WBS, more by implication than direct statement,
let slip a few clues to this scientific problem in
a tape-letter to his colleague. A week or so later,
he received the tape back from his friend, with a
message asking if he would fill in the blank spaces
on the tape. Puzzled, WBS examinod the tape care-
fully and played it over, only to discover that in
the places where he had let slip the teil-tale clues,
the sound had been neatly erased and there was a
slightly sticky substance on the tape in these areas!
The only possible conclusion he could reach was
that it was the work of the Boys from Topside.

Here then, are two authentic cases of the Space
Brothers using our electronic equipment for a speci-
fic purpose.

Use of Television.

Recently, the English magazine »Week-End« car-
ried the following article, and while it is written in
a humorous, tongue-in-cheek vein, its writer may
have been a lot closer to the truth than he imagi-
ned! To quote: »Tonight you will probably sit down

138 ufo contact

photosynthetic process to produce at least simple
plant forms.

"The significance of my findings, if correct’, Dr.
Johnson declared, "is that a case for life chemistry
in space can not only be inferred but the end pro-
duct can be looked upon as a form of life similar
to that on earth’.

Johnson made his discoveries by observing the
spectral lines of light absorption of interstellar dust.
He found that the dust absorbed light at a certain
range of wavelength.

Identifying an element or compound by spectral
information is similar to identifying a human by his
fingerprints.

It has been known that star-light contains many
colors. Scientists also know that molecules or atoms
in the path of star-light are capable of absorbing a
part of it.

This means that individual molecules can be ident-
ified positively by the particular spectral portion of
the light they absorb on a one-to-one basis.

IN MILLIONS.

Previous like studies of spectral lines indicated
the presence of hydrocarbons. But since the comb-
inations of known hydrocarbon compounds extends
into the millions, further extensive study was required
to identify the major components of dust from this
spectral information.

Random testing of the possible hydrocarbon comp-
onents of the interstellar dust would take several
lifetimes. By systematic elimination of possibilities,
Dr. Johnson reduced the field to porphyrins and
carbotenoids, which are closely associated with
chlorophyll. He compared the absorption band spec-
tra of these substances in laboratory conditions sim-
ulating the extra-terrestrial environments of the dust
and found that they matched.

Further investigation through both spectroscopic
studies and lasar research at the Electro-Optical
Systems revealed the substance in question to be
chlorophyll.

If some of this dust should reach a planet like
Mars, could the chlorophyll photosynthesize?

"We have indications that life started here (on
earch) from outside’, Dr. Johnson declared. ’’The
same thing could happen there’”’.

To illustrate the point, Dr. Johnson said he cond-
ucted some experiments on rocks estimated to be
4'/2 billion years old. He found porphyrins, a ’’skele-
ton” form of chlorophyll.

Dr. Johnson speculated that the same mechanism —
condensation of dust into meteors, which are then
attracted to planets — can be at work now as well as
in the past when earth was born.

f
Credit: — Mrs. Merna Lindermayor,
Can Bernadino, California.

The space brothers- and
Earth’s electronic
equipment

Unavoidable Interference.

One of the commonest occurrences indicating the
close presence of a UFO is the unavoidable inter-
ference with Earth’s radio, electrical and electronic
equipment, believed to be brought about by the
different force field in which the UFO operates.
Temporarily stalled cars, »dead« radios, distorted
television screens and disrupted electronic equip-
ment are among the features most frequently met with
in aclose encounter with a flying saucer. One of our
correspondents in Westford, Mass., U.S.A., where
there has been a record number of sightings this
year, tells us that when a UFO passes ‘near her
home, a most extraordinary pattern of horizontal
lines of small vees’s (thus: vvwwvwvvvvvvvvvvvvv) ap-
pears on her television screen and that frequently
when she goes outside to investigate, there is the
culprit UFO! Included among the many reports of
the increased world-wide UFO activity in recent
months are typical ones such as the report from
Azores published July 11 which reads: »Flying Ob-
ject Stops Watches. A spokesman for Santa Maria
Airport claimed today that a mysterious flying ob-
ject apparently stopped all electro-magnetic watches
at the airport when it flew slowly over the island
yesterday. He said a white cylindrical object was
seen flying slowly in a north-westerly direction at
a height of 33,000 feet«. Another report from Can-
berra, Australia, published soon after Mariner |I
was photographing Mars, reads: "Did Mysterious
Object Distort Mars Signals? A mysterious glowing
object — hovering near Canberra Airport while the
U.S. Mariner space probe was taking pictures of
Mars — has baffled experts in Canberra. Six members
of the traffic control tower crew said the object
hung suspended at about 5,000 feet for 40 minutes.
It disappeared when an air force plane was sent
out to identify it. Experts now are wondering if it
was coincidence that the object was sighted shortly
before nearby Tidninbilla tracking station was sched-
uled to pick up Mariner signals. The station had
unusual difficulty in locking on to Mariner at the
time«.

Deliberate Control.

It is believed that most of the aforegoing inci-
dents are more or less of an accidental nature. But
there is steadily-mounting evidence over the years
that our space visitors are able to and actually
do use our electronic equipment to make _ their
presence known to their earth brothers, to convey

ufo contact 115

people still who battle against great odds for what
they know to be right.

We believe that, with Your Majesty's approval,
further evidence can be produced for your consider-
ation which will help greatly your understanding of
these matters, thereby encouraging others to seek
the truth of these visitations from outer space. It is
our sincere belief that there is far too much at stake
for the world to continue to supress or ignore news
of events of such magnitude.

Should Your Majesty so desire, George Adamski’s
friends would be honoured to tell their own stories
and show their own films in Your Majesty’s presence.

With respect,
Sincerely
The Editors.
*

The evidence of the
quiet contacts

by RONALD CASWELL.

"THEY’LL NEVER GET CLOSE ENOUGH when
I've got this in my hand, you know, Ronald’, said
Fred with some conviction, looking down at the
gleaming object he held on his knee. He had a
slightly rueful smile on his face. He reminded me of
a youngish Bob Hope in looks except that his nose
was not so sharp and his face a little more rounded.
"It’s a power zoom lens, see. It’s fully automatic. —
They know that if | get them on this, NO-ONE will
be able to deny it’.

We sat near to the open French window of the
lounge with the sun streaming in, | on the comfort-
able old settee, Fred on a highbacked chair, one
knee crossed over the other, looking thoughtfully at
his own fingers idly adjusting the lens-piece of the
cine-camera.

May Morlet was somewhere in the house, probably
ringing through to some of the guests we were ex-
pecting later in the day — or maybe she had driven
into Antwerp with Ingrid, Fred’s wife, who had a
hairdressing appointment that afternoon. Tomorrow
we were to run through to The Hague to meet some
of our Dutch friends who were arranging Fred’s lect-
ure and film-show there.

Hans was about somewhere in the big old house.
He had arranged for a few days’ leave and travelled
down from Copenhagen some days before. Hans is
Major Petersen of the Royal Danish Air Force, organ-
iser of the European and Asian sections of IGAP.
He may never live it down, but, much-travelled man
that he is, he had left his passport back home! He
gave a huge chuckle as he described to us how he
had managed to talk himself across the German
frontier. Luckily his wife had now sent the passport
on.
| had flown across to Brussels a few days before,
on September 1st, and drank coffee in the airport
lounge with Pat Morlet, May’s elder son, whilst we

waited an hour or so for the Steckling’s plane to
come in from Washington, via New York and Co-
logne. They were flying LUFTHANSA.

Patrick had them paged as the Cologne flight be-
gan to stream into the arrival bay, everyone on the
look-out for the baggage coming up on the wide
moving belt from below. Mrs. Suzy Peeters, May’s
lifelong friend, and Treasurer for the Belgian groups,
arrived in her tiny Volksvagen and smilingly greeted
us, together with Philip, May’s younger son, who had
been filming the aircraft from the airport roof. We
were all old friends. Suzy was to help with extra
transport back to Antwerp.

We looked at the people who were coming over
to the inquiries desk; and the floor clattered with
luggage-loaded trollies as the passengers came away
from Customs and began passing through the barr-
iers, some hurrying, some looking lost, others being
greeted enthusiastically by waiting friends. The huge
hall rang with sound, and above all were the dis-
embodied voices speaking loftily from many hidden
loudspeakers. We wondered what Fred and Ingrid
would look like.

A neat-looking couple with a boy of about seven
spoke to one of the clerks at the inquiries desk.
They turned and faced us as the man pointed our
way.

Fred was about 5 feet 10, Ingrid about 5-7. Glenn
was looking around him at the high roof of the foyer.
Ingrid was an attractive young woman with natural
blonde hair, slim and wearing a white, two-piece suit.
She did not look the type one would expect to see
at a special private meeting of members of the
United States Senate Aeronautics and Space Comm-
ittee.

Fred seemed a rather serious-faced young man.
Both were in their early thirties. Both were German-
born, naturalised Americans. They had lived in Ca-
nada for some time prior to their arrival in the
States. Only little Glenn’s voice was totally Ameri-
can.

So this was Fred Steckling, the young man who
had not wished to ’’take over’, as George Adamski
had hoped during the last few days of his illness in
Washington. D.C. As Fred said, no-one could take
G.A.’s place. So it was left at that. And George had
died, not knowing. Or did he know, that wise old
man?

Madeleine and Fred and Ingrid had just gone on
working as before, only much harder. Telling G.A.’s
story, showing his films, bothering the officials on
Capitol Hill. And now they had Madeleine Rodeffer’s
film to show as well, the amazing close-up shots of
the scout-craft hovering over her "front yard”, which
was in reality, the long sloping, grassy bank running
from her house down to the road. At the most, a
hundred feet in the air, level with the tall tree-tops.

Madeleine and Ingrid had faced a chilly reception
committee at the private Senate hearing of January
1965, a couple of months before George died; and
at the end of the showing of George’s film sequen-
ces and a 45-minute verbal barrage from some sarc-

116 ufo contact

astic senators, Madeleine, who had worked in a Gov-
ernment office for many years, just stood up and
told them that she wouldn’t like to be in THEIR
shoes when people found out what was being kept
from them.

Did they think the public was blind?

Many had seen the planes chasing the saucers.
Even children.

And Madeleine had come out of the committee-
room seething with anger. A few weeks afterwards
she had filmed a scout-ship over her own ’’front
yard”.

Fred loosened up a little as we sped along the
road Brussels-Antwerp. Patrick, who studied at
Brussels University, and who himself lectured on
flying saucers, was a good driver, but fast!

’’Madeleine was at the airport as we left Washing-
ton. Oh, and Linda, her friend, was with her. You
know, that young woman who had some sightings.
She’s written to you, | think. A nice girl. There were
two Brothers standing back a bit in the crowd. They
weren't with Madeleine. Maybe she knew they were
there.”

He went on talking about some of the Brothers he
had met. Ingrid joined in occasionally, her eyes
bright and shining.

"Oh, Ronald!’ she said, in her German-accented
American, drawling the words. "If you only could
meet them! There is this wonderful feeling of good-
ness that seems to reach out to you.”

Fred’s rather serious face relaxed a little as he
spoke. One could see he was no fanatic. Fred Steck-
ling and Ingrid were not money-grabbing ’’contact-
ees’? making a fast buck. They spoke quietly, but
forcefully at times. Perhaps Fred could not quite
shake off this feeling of having to convince someone
all the time.

Ronald,” he said, after a rather long, somewhat
tired silence. They'd been travelling for many, many
hours. ’’Ronald, do you know, it’s just as if they have
our frequencies. | had a birthday a while back —”
Ingrid was about to burst in with wife-like enthusiasm
but Fred’s voice stopped her. ’’'l had a birthday a
while back,’’ Fred went on. ’’Ingrid and | were wat-
ching T.V. | don’t remember the show. Suddenly —”
and again Ingrid was bursting with agreement,
”_ suddenly it went doot-di-di-doot-doot, on the T.V.
just like that, maybe ten or a dozen times. Doot-di-
di-doot-doot. Ingrid and | just looked at each other —
and then we both DASHED out onto the porch.”

Patrick swerved among the traffic on a bumpy
patch of road.

"There over the house was the saucer. It just
swayed there, back and forward. Then it seemed to
swing down low as the light showed from the porch
and then shot off over in the direction of Washing-
ton Airport.”

Ingrid couldn’t hold herself any longer. ’’And do
you know, Ronald!’’ she burst in, Madeleine had the
same thing happen on her birthday! Linda and some
more friends were just being seen off from the house
and they called out to Madeleine to look. And there

was this red, glowing light swaying over the house!”

Fred smiled knowingly.

"You can bet, they’ve got our wave-lengths!” he
said.

As we looked out at May’s long lily-pond in the
spacious lawn, the big, leafy trees almost overhang-
ing the house and splashing the ground with shadow,
Fred gave a little laugh to himself and glanced up
at me. He was so often serious, especially when he
talked to the people who gathered at May’s house,
guests, reporters etc, — it was nice to see him with
a, somewhat twisted, grin. There were no gimmicks
with Fred.

"| saw a saucer close overhead some while ago. —
There are a LOT of them around that area — | had
my camera with me, this camera — and | ran off some
film and | felt so gosh-darned pleased with myself!
D’you know something? | left the dust-cap on!”

He told me of his talks with the Brothers.

"D’you know, Ronald, when you’re with them, you
don’t ASK questions. You don’t think of it. You just
listen. It’s as if you are not meant to ask of things
maybe they don’t want you to know.”

Fred bit his lip thoughfully.

"One of them | can see several times a week. |
know where he’s working. | can tell you what sort
of work he does, but not where.’ Fred told me.

"It's only once in a while we have a chance to
talk. Maybe over a cup of coffee some place.”

He paused, then went on.

"This one’s from Venus.”

Fred’s trip over had been delayed. Hans and | had
had to change our bookings. Fred had told me on
the trip up from the airport how someone, — he didn’t
know who — had contacted the bank where Fred had
arranged credit for the trip.

"| have to do it on the instalments,” he said. "A
cook doesn’t earn all that much money.” Fred works
at an hotel in Virginia, near where he lives.

The strange thing was that Fred had previously
had credit arrangements with the same bank,. and
had had no bother. Maybe someone had tried to stop
his trip to Europe. It had taken several days to clear
up the matter.

He was speaking first in Antwerp, staying with
May for some days, then The Hague, then Frankfurt
and Mannheim, then in Austria — Vienna and Linz —
then on to West Berlin for the last six days to stay
with his family.

Whether Fred was helped with money at the Ger-
man or Austrian lectures, | don’t know. | know he
received nothing in Antwerp and Den Haag, except
hospitality from good friends. That certainly did not
pay the Stecklings fare across the Atlantic.

Fred’s first lecture was on the evening of our arr-
ival in Antwerp, at May Morlet’s home. Of the 50-60
in the audience, which included reporters, | noticed
a young woman. | shall not describe her.

Later that night, in fact at 3.30 in the morning, —
we had sat talking, all of May’s house-guests, until
the small hours, as we were to do every night of our
visit — | walked with Hans Petersen around some

ufo contact 137

There is no doubt that a great number of the
meteoric falls actually are remains of ’’natural”’
objects in space — but not by any means al! of them.

No doubt also, some of the falls of ice are from
aircraft de-icing or breaking off by some _ other
means; the theory about ice from the toilets is very
doubtful, but even if we give this theory a certain
chance, then it still explains only a very small part
of the total number of reported falls.

Until the Rocket-age’s attempts to explain condit-
ions in the Space around us began, a remarkable
attitude prevailed within certain scientific circles in
regard to that Space.

Earth was the navel of the Cosmos, around which
and about which everything turned. The moon and
the planets and the stars were hung in the sky for
Earth’s sake, and between all the bodies outside of
Earth’s atmosphere was this great empty Space, in
which was to be found — absolutely nothing.

But the rockets told another story — they had been
out there. We can say then, that now it is proven
that Space is not empty. Among other things, dust
has been registered. And it has become dusty in the
space-capsule when the capsule door has_ stood
open.

It is proven also, that certain chemical reactions
can, in the course of a few seconds, form solid
matter. (Einstein).

As all the planets are born in the same Cosmos,
this means to say that the same elements or units
which make up the "'creation’’ are to be found in
invisible form in this so-called empty Space. It
“only” needs the right chemical reaction to take
place for the whole to take solid form and to build
up as planets, comets, meteorites or ice — or for that
matter, as many other things.

It is therefore quite plain to see that science can,
and must, soon add a new chapter to that book about
the ’’factual’’ conditions in Space, which it is writing
at this time. In this book’ it will be stated that,
under certain conditions, solid matter is formed in
empty Space — as well as much else — matter that
can later fall onto this planet or others as ’’shooting-
stars’ or as ice from an airplane’s toilet.

And it will be enormously difficult, — yes, almost
impossible, — to differentiate between what are rem-
ains of solid bodies, such as planets, comets or
asteroids, and what is produced by some other
means. One might point to evidence of bacteria, but
this just will not do, because bacteria can be gath-
ered up from anywhere in the Cosmos. For example,
our planet, just the same as other planets, has,
during its journey through space, trailed behind itself
a long tail of dust and bacteria. This dust and these
bacteria are caught up at some time or another by
other heavenly bodies, in the same manner that we
collect dust and bacteria from other worlds.

In fact, we need not go to all the great amount of
trouble that we do, to sterilize the space-ships and
probes which are to be sent up; — our bacteria has
long been present on our sister planets and many

other planets, just as ’’their bacteria’ has been a
long, long while living with us.

Thus there exists great unexplored areas of res-
earch with which science can come to grips and
learn from; and when, finally, these are explained,
the next natural step will be to learn how one can
come to live without being ’’infected’’ by bacteria.

We are on the way; but for a while yet we shall
be "infected’”’ by bacteria, and believe that we can
“infect” our sister planets’ inhabitants with our bac-
teria. For a while yet we shall only find meteorites
that originate from planets, comets or asteroids, and
ice which falls from the toilet-systems of airplanes.

October 1966.
a I =

Here, in a report just received from the United
States, is an important break-through into the area
of research mentioned in the afore-going article. With
precision timing, we now perceive that ’’— through
condensation this dust eventually forms meteorites
which are dense enough to be attracted to a pla-
net -”.

From: Los Angeles ’’Herald-Examiner’’, Sunday,
January 22nd 1967.

»L. A. Man finds Life in Space«

THERE IS LIFE IN SPACE!

Chlorophyll, key compound of life on earth, exists
abundantly in outer space.

These findings have been reported to a gathering
of experts on Astronomy and Biodynamics meeting
at the University of California at Berkeley by Dr.
Fred Johnson of Electro-Optical Systems in Pasa-
dena.

Based on his findings, Dr. Johnson told the Berke-
ley colloquium the possibility that man is not alone
in the universe is excellent.

The physicist, astronomer and biochemist told the
Berkeley sessions, which opened Friday, that after
13 years of re8earch he had been able to identify
interstellar dust and had found it is composed larg-
ely of the solid molecular substance chlorophyll and
not ice or graphite as had been previously believed.

"There is no reason to believe that we on this
planet are unique”, Dr. Johnson told the Herald-
Examiner. ’’There is very good evidence, on the
other hand, that there may be similar forms of life
throughout the universe’”’.

Dr. Johnson reported that although interstellar dust
is very small with each grain having an average
density of 10 to 26 grams per cubic centimeter, he
speculates that through condensation this dust even-
tually forms meteorites which are dense enough to
be attracted to a planet.

SIMPLE PLANTS.
These meteorites, he said, then deposit the life
substance chlorophyll and, as on earth, undergo the

136 ufo contact

the principles involved in weight-distribution and
surface manipulation, i.e. expert engineers producing
the revolutionary Hovercraft.

"Some of my readers will have been way ahead
of me in these past assessments and no doubt will
have anticipated my next intention. Yet others will
be a trifle impatient that the following correlation
should be made. But | must stress, | try very hard
not to be biased, science is far more interesting
left as it is. Therefore | am sincere in my next anal-
ysis. | trust the reader will be, too. | have purposely
chosen the following title for the evidence which |
hope may help shed some truer light on one who
may be a very maligned man.” UNQUOTE.

Yes, the "’very maligned man” is George Adamski.

12 years ago Leonard G. Cramp produced the
orthographic projections which showed how young
Stephen Darbishire’s '’Coniston’” saucer, as photo-
graphed, was identical in shape and proportion to
Adamski’s classic ’’scout-craft’’.

Today, in his book "Piece For A Jig-saw’’, Mr.
Cramp produces startling evidence of a highly-tech-
nical nature which shows how, following along purely
engineering principles as a result of analyses of
hundreds of reported saucer-sightings, with accomp-
anying detail of manoeuvre and flight patterns, he
arrives at the ideal form, in all respects, for a visit-
ing ’’saucer’’. The saucer he finally produces, after
progressive line-drawings and photographs by the
score, is the Adamski scout-craft.

In his concluding chapter, not only does the author
quote details of engineering data provided by Adam-
ski in his controversial books, but Mr. Cramp con-
fesses that, until the time of writing this last chapter,
he had not yet read completely Adamski’s Inside
The Space Ships’! Realising perhaps certain read-
ers’ scepticism about this belated admission, Mr.
Cramp goes on to describe points outlined in that
book concerning Adamski’s alleged trips in the
scout-craft, whereby his (Cramp’s) own scientifically
arrived-at data receives startling corroboration!

"At this juncture | can almost hear many an Adam-
ski sceptic breathing a sigh of incredulity, hardly
able to believe that | should dare to include such
material in a semi-technical work of this nature.”
Unquote.

With many detailed international sighting reports
analysed scientifically, with his own photographed
experiments showing the intensive study he has made
of all aspects of ’’saucer’’ manoeuvres and flight, and
accompanied by scores of finely-executed line-draw-
ings, Leonard Cramp provides food for thought for
all those of an open mind.

Here, biased or un-biased as we may seem, we
would like to recommend to other biased and unb-
iased UFO researchers one of the best flying saucer
contributions since "Inside The Space Ships’! That
the author is not biased can be witnessed by the
360 pages of this book which are not about George
Adamski.

In expressing the hope that certain UFOlogist

sceptics will not now refrain from purchasing and
reading this excellent book, we would like to conc-
lude with an excerpt from the summing-up by Leo-
nard G. Cramp himself.

"Out of the confusion and the shadow surrounding
this most enigmatic of flying saucer contact stories,
emerges one or two, but nevertheless very important
facts.

(a) Adamski type saucers are not uncommon

among UFO reports.

(b) On purely engineering grounds the configurat-
ion of the "scout ship’ offers the best all-
round compromise which could embody the
functions required by the gravitational propul-
sion theory.

Adamski’s description of inside a saucer is
not inconsistent with the theory, on the cont-
rary, theory seems to support it.

Thus on these grounds alone | for one feel
inclined to accept the first part of his exper-
ience as fact, and in my opinion any incons-
istencies which appear in his subsequent

claims are insufficient to invalidate the prev-

ious conclusions.”

"PIECE FOR A JIG-SAW” — 27 sh. 6 d.
SOMERTON PUBLISHING COMPANY,
COWES. ISLE OF WIGHT.

Miscellaneous

Out of the clear, blue sky
by MAJOR H. C. PETERSEN.

WE ALL KNOW of accounts of objects which,
during the past couple of hundred years, have been
reported as falling down from the sky, — and, often
enough, from a clear, cloudless sky.

Scientists and other experts have sought to ex-
plain such ’’falls’’ as meteorites, meteors, or — now-
adays — as something in connection with flying, ato-
mic tests or the like.

In the book ’’Le Matin des Magiciens’, by the
Frenchmen, Louis Pauwels and Jacques Bergier, vol-
ume One gives reference to 40,000 notations of falls
of such extraordinary things.

If we concern ourselves solely with two groups of
objects — meteorites and ice — then we find ourselves
in an area where science and various other expert
sources are quite positive in their conclusions.

Meteoric stones originate from comets and planets
which have disintegrated, or from larger or smaller
asteroids. The ice comes from airplanes — either
formed outwardly or from the toilet.

ufo contact 117

quiet, deserted, leafy avenues near to May’s house.
Hans had suggested a walk before turning in. It was
our first opportunity to talk alone together since our
meeting in Denmark three or four weeks before.

He also wanted to tell me something. About a
young lady of rather special appearance who had,
during the course of the evening, moved out of the
audience and was sitting on a settee very close to
the speaker’s table. Just before the guests left, —
some of them were unknown to May Morlet — the
young woman spoke a few words with Hans.

"Ron’”, said Hans, ’’| am wondering about that
young woman.”

Some days after Fred and Ingrid and Glenn had
left Vienna for Berlin, for avery short family re-union,
the Co-workers received a letter from our Austrian
friend and Co-worker, Dora Bauer, who told us of the
lectures Fred had given in Vienna and Linz. She also
wrote that Fred had told her of two space people,
a Brother and a Sister, who were at May’s house on
that first evening — —

And going through Germany he had filmed a
strange formation in the sky. It was on September
7th 1966.

In February this year | received photostats of corr-
espondence and some still pictures from the film
that Fred Steckling took whilst travelling by train
between Mannheim and Frankfurt, in West Germany.
The stills he had obtained by photographing from
the screen, he said. He did not dare have the stills
professionally made. (Both George Adamski and Ma-
deleine Rodeffer have had ’’accidents’’ happen to
film in the past. A greater part of the Rodeffer close-
up saucer film was stolen from an hotel room when
G.A. was taking the original to be copied. Copies
of his own film loaned to T.V. net-works and others
have returned badly disfigured with chemicals, ’'with
great regret —’’)

A letter from Fred to Thomas G. Corbin, Major-
General U.S.A.F. Director Legislative Liaison, Dep-
artment of the Air Force, Washington, D.C., read:

"Dear Sir,

While with my family in Germany September 7,
1966, | had the rare opportunity to film a ’’Armada’”’
of about 40 to 50 UFO’s apearing and disappearing
in the middle of the blue sky.

The 23 feet of Kodakcolour film were taken out
of an open window of a speeding express train,
Mannheim-Frankfurt, approximately at 11.40 a.m.

My camera is an automatic 8 mm Revere power
zoom, 30 mm lens. The objects, which can be seen,
look like white cigarettes on the motion-picture be-
hind trees, railroad stations and powerlines, which
were flying by and blocking their sight on occasions
while filming. This rules out light reflections from
any excusable source.

| would be willing indeed to show this rare film
(personally) to Air Force officials here in Washing-
ton D.C., if they are interested.

Any Monday would be fine for showing the film,
I am looking forward to your answer,

sincerely, Fred Steckling.”

UNQUOTE.

Similar letters were sent to Senator Clinton P.
Anderson, of the Senate Space and Aeronautics
Committee, and to Dr. Paul D. Lowman Jnr. at the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
(NASA).

The reply from Dr. Lowman reads: (see inside back
cover).

"NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
ADMINISTRATION
GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER
Greenbelt, Maryland 20771

FILE.17282

Mr. Fred Steckling, Feb. 20 1967

Alexandria, Virginia 22312.

Dear Mr. Steckling:

Thank you very much for your letter and for your
offer to show us your film. | am not really qualified
to pass judgement on it, but it would be good to
have the people here at Goddard who are, look at
it. May | suggest, then, that you give Mr. Penn Ste-
vens, phone — -, a call. He will make an appoint-
ment for you to come out to Goddard and show the
Photographic Branch and me your film. Unfortunat-
ely we have no 8 mm projector here, so | must ask
you to bring your own. Thank you again for your
offer.

Sincerely yours,

signed. Paul D. Lowman, Jr.
Geochemistry Laboratory
Laboratory for Theoretical Studies.”
UNQUOTE.

Of the visit, which took place in Building A.I. at
10.30 a.m. on February 27th 1967, Fred said this:

"— We took Madeleine along so the 22 NASA off-
icials could see G.A.’s and her film, too. They seem-
ed to be quite impressed, but would not make an
open statement concerning the film, naturally. The
2 hour meeting took place in Building A.l. They
treated us very nice and seemed to know much more
of what we had to show and tell. One thing they
said, however, and that is concerning Dr. Hynek. His
swamp-gas explanations are nonsense, we were told.

But despite the evidence of the 3 films they still
would like to have more positive proof, we were told,
for it still does not prove these ships to be extra-
terrestrial, as one official put it. However, he was
not able to tell us just where these strange crafts
come from otherwise. But they were quite impressed
about the exact formation of the many ships on the
film of Sept. 7th. 66. Reflection, any fake, and cloud
formation, including Skyriders, was ruled out. It left
only 23 feet of UFO’s.

"They said nothing about G.A.’s film and on Ma-
deleine’s they commented, — the ship is smaller, and
anticipated it to be about 27 feet in diameter. They
were interested in how far the trees in the back-

118 ufo contact

ground were and all in all said, to be convinced that
what we had shown them are ships of extraterrestrial
origin they needed more positive proof or evidence.
One person came up with the scout being a volks-
wagen, you know how they have to make jokes. But
we were treated very nice and in respect, — one
person said to Ingrid, you have something there, —
meaning the films —

"| could see that they had much knowledge, but
could not give themselves away. They did not rid-
icule us, nor the films, nor the whole UFO idea. |
did not go to NASA to convince them, but to cons-
ult them.”

He added:

"This meeting with NASA was a different matter
altogether than the Senate Space committee 2 years
ago with Madeleine and Ingrid, where they received
more ’’Hell’’ than anything else —”

UNQUOTE.

On March 20th, Fred sent me a photostat letter
from the UFO spokesman at the Pentagon in Wa-
shington D.C. (see back pages)

"DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
Washington 20330

Office Of The Secretary
Mar 17 1967
Dear Mr. Steckling:

Your letter concerning your unidentified flying
object (UFO) film finally reached my office — — —
Office of Information for Project Blue Book, the Air
Force UFO program.

The Air Force would be very interested in review-
ing your film. If you would get in touch with me at
the Pentagon, we will arrange a showing for any
Monday which is convenient for you. My number is
0----or0----

Thank you for offering to show your film; | am
looking forward to hearing from you.

Sincerely

signed. George P. Freeman, Jr.
Lt. Colonel, USAF.

Chief, Civil Branch

Community Relations Division
Office of Information.

Mr. Fred Steckling,

Alexandria, Virginia 22312.”
UNQUOTE.

Fred wrote of the visit:

"Our Pentagon visit was Monday March 20th at
2 p.m. at Colonel Freeman’s office. — Madeleine
came along — Several high commission officers rev-
iewed the Sept. 7th film three times, and Colonel
Freeman stated: ’’This is the best film I’ve seen yet.”
and ”’| have never seen anything like this before.’’
He told me to inform the UFO investigation comm-
ittee in Colorado — (— the new University of Colorado

UFO investigation study, — R.C.) — and send them
some pictures.

"Madeleine’s and G.A.’s films were already known
to them — from T.V. — and no comment was made on
them. They seemed to know all three of us — Ingrid
was there — they gave this impression.

"The Colonel said: "What about the scoutships
we are supposed to have in Dayton?’’ so we ans-
wered, ’’What about and how about it?’’ They did
not confirm anything or otherwise. But here too we
were treated respectfully, and returned the same to
them -.”’

UNQUOTE.

Later, | received a fuller description of events.

"When | took the film September 7th, we were
between Mannheim and Frankfurt traveling North. The
time was about 11.45 a.m., no clouds, about seventy
degrees, Fahrenheit. Although power-lines and trees
were flying by, while | took the film, If there was a
station it surely swished by so fast that it was imp-
ossible to make out any signs, etc. In this case you
have to take my word for it. | was already before
alerted of the Brothers before the film, and became
aware of a group of 10 to 12 cigarette shaped
objects high in the sky (12 o’clock up.) | jumped
back to grab the camera, a 8 mm Revere, 30 mm
powerzoom, Chicago build and opened the window
all the way to eliminate any reflections and started
filming. All in all, 6 groups of ten to twelve space-
craft appeared one after another and moved along
the sky like Dolphins in the water, as an example.
Appearing and disappearing, the armada traveled to
about 9 o’clock (position) and disappeared complet-
ely, giving me the privilege to take about 23 feet of
Kodak color film.

"There were quite some people on the train, some
of them looking out of their windows, becoming
aware of the objects. As we could see they all had
big question-marks on their faces. They had never
seen anything like this before. | might add, there
was no fear on their faces. Ingrid and myself also
Glenn, we could hardly believe it, ever to be pres-
ented with such an opportunity of taking that many
ships on film and all at once. We stood on the win-
dow, Ingrid saying only, ’’oh, my God” and our every
hair was standing up at this wonderful sight. We will
never forget this experience and are surely grateful
for it. —”’

UNQUOTE.

| wrote to Fred, asking him if | could use his pict-
ures and correspondence in UFO CONTACT. He
wrote back:

”You can go ahead and use what you feel is right
concerning my visit to NASA and the pictures —

"As you know, my work in this cause has no conn-
ections in pleasing my Ego, and therefore it does
not matter to me if my name is used or not. Import-
ant is the work, not us. —

"We all know George Adamski has given much to
this world in knowledge and information and | feel

ufo contact

At that time the Air Force termed the Heflin pict-
ure a hoax.

The ’’Bluebook”’ report said Heflin’s photo did not
correspond to his description of the round, saucer-
like object.

But since then the Air Force has commissioned
the independent study by the University of Colorado
at Boulder.

From: "San Francisco Chronicle’,
Friday, March 10, 1967.
Credit: Theodore Gray Hullett, San Francisco,
California, U.S.A.
*

Two PCs spot a »saucers«

Two policemen saw an oval-shaped object flash
through the sky yesterday. The officers said the
saucer-like object flew over Strood, Kent, at about
1,000 feet — and had a tail of blue and silvery stars.

Later there was a similar report from Sevenoaks.
(Kent.)

Police at Rochester said: ’’The authorities have
been told.”

From: "Daily Sketch’, London, March 25th, 1967.

*

»The flying saucer that

Andrew saw in Stamford Sky«

Andrew, the eight-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs.
T. H. Hyde, of 59 Scotgate, Stamford, claims to
have seen a ’'flying saucer’ over Stamford on Tues-
day. Aug. 2. He was in his back garden at the time,
and this is how he sketched and described what he
saw:

"| saw this object in the sky twice this morning
between about half-past ten and a quarter to eleven.
It was going very quickly above the clouds. The
first time | saw it, it was travelling in a N. W.
direction, and then about ten minutes later it came
back.

"It was then going in a S. E. direction, and it
made no sound. the shape was round, with black
circles looking like ship’s port-holes round the
middle. There were little things looking like landing
wheels on the bottom.

"There was a cloud of yellow stuff coming out
of the back and there was a ring round the middle
of the object.”

UNQUOTE.
From: A Stamford paper, Lincs. England.
August 1966.

A friend is a person who knows all about
you — and still likes you. Elbert Hubbard.

Literature

»Piece for a jig-saw«
By LEONARD G. CARMP., M.S.I.A. A.R.Ae.S.

author of ’’Space, Gravity and the
Flying Saucer.”

Here is a book about ’’flying saucers’? which can
be of immense interest to both the »converted’’ and
to the ’’open-minded”’, to the lay-person looking for
more corroboration to back up his beliefs in the
reality of visiting space-ships, and to the technically-
minded man who may well be rather surprised at the
wealth of detail of a highly technical nature included
in this work.

Leonard Cramp, who for many years has worked
in both aerodynamics and, more recently, with the
new design principles of the Hovercraft, has succ-
eeded in writing a bookunderstood, by any person
of normal intelligence who can read the English
language.

Piece For A Jig-saw”’ does, in truth, offer a piece
— a very large piece — of that enigmatic jig-saw
puzzle which has undulated and returned along 180
degrees through head-lines of the world’s press for
the past 20 years. Cramp himself has worked on
material for this book for over half that time. It is
12 years since he submitted to the public ’’Space,
Gravity and the Flying Saucer’; — this book is a
natural and elevating follow-up.

Written in a style which is as open and as lacking
in pomposity as the author himself, one finds a patt-
ern developing from each chapter to the next, as he
takes us from his brief but concise "background
material’? of orthodox aerodynamics, curves into a
high trajectory through the experimental X-15 and
the family of rockets, and into the deep blue. One
is almost shocked to find with what ease Cramp
brings us down — not in a capsule supported by
great billowing parachutes, but gently landing in a
field, any field, ready for instant take-off to a far-off
hovering mother-ship.

At least, the mother-ship is there by implication,
because Mr. Cramp, as he says, having "set myself
the task of discovering the truth as an engineer’,
arrives, after a volume full of investigation and ex-
perimentation, at the last chapter which is entitled:
"Vindication Of A Scout Ship.”

The last paragraph of the second from last chapter
might well sum up a very large part of the UFO
story. It also sums up the author, a man who succ-
eeded in forming a large group of UFO enthusiasts
from a very hard core of technology, men who know

134 ufo contact

ities of the dark shape behind them. There was a
tiny white light behind which did not seem to be att-
ached to the object in any way; but as the night was
very dark, she admits that this could also have been
a star. The colored lights were not blinking, and the
object seemed not to move, although she of course
was moving towards it in her car. She described the
object (which, she admits, she saw very indistinctly
in the almost complete darkness), as a black wing-
like thing which made no noise. Then she suddenly
thought ’’Surely it can’t be a plane, this low. Per-
haps it is a flying saucer’. The size of the 2 colored
lights was small, about the size of ordinary car
blinker-lights. If the witness had stopped to investig-
ate, this could have been a most important sighting.
Unfortunately, she preferred to continue on her way,
and thus lost a great opportunity.

Thursday April 13th around 8.15 p.m., Victoria’s
lights suddenly all dimmed for a couple of seconds,
and at that moment, witnesses in town chanced to
see a colored object streak across the sky. The
Press tried to ‘explain’ this dimming to lightning up
at Campbell River, some 200 miles away: this, how-
ever, would seem unconvincing, in view of the num-
erous past cases where a certain type of UFO has
repeatedly caused the dimming, and indeed the
blackout, of electric lights in widely separated areas.
It is also well-known to researchers that other types
of UFO’s do not affect electrical installation: on the
other hand, it is possible that all UFO’s may have
the ability to affect such installations, or to refrain
from doing so, at will.

Report from: P. M. H. Edwards, Victoria, B.C.,
Canada.

Credit: Tommy Helmer,

Bromma, Stockholm, Sweden.

eek.

From: The Mexican newspaper EL HERALDO”,
February 26th, 1967.

(There are three photographs of flying saucers
produced in the article, which unfortunately we
cannot reproduce here. However, here are the capt-
ions to the photographs. — Ed.)

Nr. 1. This photograph of a strange space object
was taken by Dr. Jose A. Lanuza, professor at the
Sorbonne in Paris and at the Autonomous National
University of Mexico, when he travelled aboard an
airplane of the Compafia Mexicana de Aviacién from
Mexico City to Guadalajara.’’ (— It will be rememb-
ered by some readers that many times George Adam-
ski spoke of a saucer base in the mountains around
Guadalajara. — Ed.)

Nr. 2. ’Dr. Lanuza was able to take this picture
above the Valley of Mexico. It shows in our sky the
presence of another flying object. It is of a circular
shape and has in its upper part a transparent dome.
The ship seemed to be made of some metal of
aluminium color.”

Nr. 3. ’’This UFO photo was taken by Dr. Lanuza
at a distance of about 100 metres from the machine

and only a few metres above the surface of Mexico
Valley. Note at the bottom of the picture the power-
lines, which give an idea of how low the saucer was.
Dr. Lanuza has the negatives in his possession,
which have been carefully examined by photo ex-
perts, who stated that no fake was involved.”
_*-
Also in "EL HERALDO”’.

Flying saucers are seen in clear daylight

They were observed near Montevideo.

Montevideo (UPI) — Unidentified Flying Objects
were observed in this capital in clear daylight, stated
the director of the Astronomical Observatory ANTA-
RES, Juan Reyes Febles, who succeeded in taking
21 color photos of said objects.

He added that from one saucer were ejected into
space some smaller objects of the same shape
whose colors varied from blue to violet and orange.

According to Mr. Reyes and other witnesses’ obs-
ervations is was an oval UFO seen at a height of
about 6 km to the North of the City. It had an ind-
ented rim. One could see a dark dome with a dis-
tinctly white rim and one open porthole in the upper
part.

Finally Reyes said: ’’It could be proved that it was
a "'mothersaucer”’, i.e., a giant space-ship which
ejected from its interior other little ships that shot
away at a vertiginous speed”’.

The sighting was made the day before yesterday
and lasted for one hour and 40 minutes.”

(We should remind readers that this sighting was
made from an astronomical observatory, and that an
open porthole at a height of 6000 metres or 20,000
feet could well be in view with certain types of
telescopes. Whether it was in fact a porthole that
was open at that cold height and in that thin air
might be a point of conjecture perhaps, but we are
not reckoning with terrestrial aircraft here, of course.
— Editor.)

Credit: Mrs. Maria Cristina de Rueda,
IGAP-MEXICO.
Translation: Mrs. Dora Bauer, IGAP-AUSTRIA.

=

»Convincing« UFO pictures

SANTA ANA. — A University of Colorado professor
conducting a study of unidentified flying objects says
that "Photographic evidence of UFOs, when avail-
able, is very convincing.”

Robert J. Low, project co-ordinator of a Govern-
ment-sponsored UFO study, is in Santa Ana to study
a controversial 1965 UFO photo previously discredit-
ed by the Air Force.

Low termed the picture, taken by Rex Heflin of
Santa Ana, as ’’among the top four or five’ items of
photographic evidence of UFOs.

Heflin, 37, a project inspector for the Orange
County Highway Department, took his picture August
3, 1965, just off the Santa Ana freeway.

ufo contact 119

that the people should become aware first of his work
and contacts. When your readers have become
acquainted with the idea of the brothers being under
us this very moment and that everyone has the
chance to talk to them if he becomes aware of them,
then you may talk about my contacts in connection
with G.A. Ronald, | cannot tell you what to do, for
you must use your own judgement in this matter.
When ever you feel to use it then go ahead and do
so. | am not afraid to face the people or what ever
comes with it, neither is Madeleine. —”
UNQUOTE.

That is the story of the Quiet Contacts.

Why have | told you all this? Because | know that
those who read these words will feel the sincerity
of Fred and lItigrid Steckling, and of Madeleine Rod-
effer.

The sceptics talk always of people ’’making a fast
buck’. Maybe they are right about some. But not
about the Stecklings or Madeleine. They are losing
money fast, but they are doing the job that George
Adamski left them to do, with steadfastness and cou-
rage.

What is the lesson from this?

First, — you will make up your own minds as to the
truth of their stories, — as George Adamski said so
often: ’'l’m not here to convince you, — just to tell
you.”

Second, — you are invited to look again at the
picture which is painted for you in these sequences
of events.

GEORGE ADAMSKI took his story and his films
to ANYONE - including authority — and was prepared
to face all criticism and expert analysis.

MADELEINE RODEFFER was enabled to take close-
up shots of a flying saucer over her garden. This
was arranged with the Brothers, and she was expect-
ing them. She has shown this film, with G.A.’s, on
nation-wide net-works, — she has faced the officials
on Capitol Hill. She has met the Brothers.

FRED STECKLING has taken a unique movie-film
which has impressed NASA’s photographic experts
and the men at the Pentagon. He has met the
Brothers.

Can it be CO-INCIDENCE all the time? Can they
FAKE unique and impressive evidence ALL THE
TIME?

At this point | might add that whilst George Adam-
ski was on his 1959 world-tour, many separate witn-
esses in Australia and New Zealand reported activit-
ies and formations of saucers over some of the very
cities and towns where G.A. lectured.

All this is for the record.

As Fred Steckling wrote in simple words which
held a world of meaning:

IMPORTANT IS THE WORK — NOT US.

UFO-PICTURES

132 ufo contact

LIFE’S GIFTS.

Each of us receives life’s gifts on Earth. A belief
in a continued spiritual life after the comparitively
short time of 70 years of physical life here on Earth,
compared with the endless cycle of eternity, makes
the actions of the moment an investment with far-
reaching consequences.

The certainty that Man can choose between good
and evil should lead him nearer to his Creator. Fur-
ther, it should lead to an understanding that Man’s
life here and later, is more likely to depend on his
relation to the spiritual than to the scientific.

Our decisions now will unavoidably determine fut-
ure actions. Nature around us will hold more unsolv-
ed than solved mysteries. But science has won itself
sufficient power so that it can open up a Golden
Age for Mankind, providing this power is used for
good — or destroy it, if the power is used negatively.

Religion’s ethical guide-lines are the bonds that
can hold civilisation together. Without it Man cannot
reach his dearest goal — peace with himsefl, his God
and his neighbour. Wernher von Braun.

From: ’’Jyllands-Posten’’, Denmark,
Dec 11th 1966.

Credit: IGAP-DENMARK.
Translation: RONALD CASWELL.

UFO-reports

Soviet radar spots UFOs

MOSCOW -— (AP) — A Soviet scientist says there
may really be such things as flying saucers from
outer space.

Soviet radar screens have detected unidentified
flying objects (UFOs) for 20 years, he says.

But Soviet scientists, like their colleagues in the
West, are still puzzled about what such UFOs really

The scientist, identified only as F. Zigel, was writ-
ing in the current issue of the illustrated Soviet
youth magazine Cmena.

He offered five possible explanations for UFOs,
including visitors from outer space. He called this
alternative ’’extremely speculative.”

But,” he added, ’’as the UFO problem has not
yet been solved, different explanations, including
extremes, are possible.”

The article took the lid off a subject rarely disc-
ussed in the press here.

In the 1950s the Soviet press scoffed at American
reports of flying saucers as just so much cold war
propaganda.

By those Soviet accounts, the Americans tried to
explain away the '’saucers’’ as some sort of new,
secret Soviet weapon.

Reports of flying saucers sighted in the Soviet
Union, in the Caucasus and in Central Asia, also
were ridiculed here.

Then for several years the Soviet press remained
silent on the whole question; the Cmena article show-
ed that the UFO issue is being reopened, this time
as an object of serious scientific study.

Zigel was identified as one of the editors of a
book, Inhabited Cosmos,” being prepared for publi-
cation here. The book will discuss the possibility of
living beings in space and efforts to communicate
with them.

The chief editor of the book is B. P. Konstantinov,
who, as a vice president of the Soviet Academy of
Science, is one of this country’s most respected
scientists.

In his magazine article, Zigel said the ‘Angel
Echo,” a UFO detected by radar, is constantly obs-
erved by scientists at the Central Aerological Obs-
ervatory near Moscow.

Similar observations, he said, have been made in
the United States, Australia, India and Japan.

The phenomena of the UFO today should be con-
sidered as global,’ he added.

He rejected the idea that birds, insects or plant
seeds could cause such reactions on radar screens.

Zigel said there could be no doubt that UFOs
exist "but the nature of these objects is still not
understandable today.”

Then he listed these five possible explanations:

1. NONSENSE or invention. He said there was
some untruth here, citing reports of people who
claimed to have ridden in flying saucers and others
who threw hats in the air and then photographed
saucers’. But he rejected this alternative as killing
the question rather than solving it.

2. AN OPTICAL illusion related to the distribution
of light in the earth’s atmosphere, such as a rain-
bow. The UFO, he said, is more complicated than
that, however.

3. A NEW SECRET flying apparatus of one of the
military powers on earth. ’’No one holds this view
now,” he said.

4. AN UNKNOWN phenomena of nature, just as
radioactivity was unknown until the end of the last
century. In this context, ionized particles and charged
particles of dust in the atmosphere were given as a
possible explanation. But Zigel said, this does not
explain the color or maneuverability of UFOs or their
appearance in good weather.

5. SPACESHIPS from an advanced civilization on
another planet. Zigel said the speed of UFOs supp-
orts this theory. So does what he called ’’the fact’’

that no UFOs were ever reliably reported to have
landed.

Zigel called for an all-sided, thorough, scientific
exploration’ to clear up the origin of UFOs once
and for all.

From: The Miami News, Wed, April 19th, 1967.
Credit: Mrs. Jane McEvoy, Florida, U.S.A.

ufo contact 121

What Adamski
Said...

GEORGE ADAMSKI WAS MANY TIMES ACC-
USED of being a charlatan, — that is, a person who
pretends to have more knowledge or skill than he
does have, — an impostor or a cheat. He has been
called a faker, because he has produced photo-
graphs of so-called space-ships which he claimed
to have taken himself. He was a liar, taking money
from the credulous with stories of fantasy, saying
they were true.

Most of these names were given to him by people
who would not have had the courage to say it to his
face, or within the presence of a lawyer. If Adamski
had invoked the law of libel in every case such as
this, not one of his detractors could have proven
that the name he had used was applicable, and
Adamski could have indeed made money from those
claims! But Adamski was not that kind of man. He
knew the truth, and therefore no-one could harm his
integrity. On this integrity all his subsequent actions
rested.

Many incidents is his later life were mis-reported,
sometimes out of malice, at other times because of
expediency, when insufficient detail was at hand.
Many were the garbled reports circulated about one
very special occasion. Here, below, is WHAT ADAM-
SKI SAID about:

The royal audience

During my stay in Brisbane | received a letter from
Rey d’Aquila of The Hague, Netherlands, requesting
me to attend an interview with Queen Juliana on May
18th, 1959. The letter requested an immediate reply.
| sent a cable confirming receipt of the letter and
consenting to the interview.

Toward the end of April, when | returned to Lon-
don from lectures in outlying cities of the British
Isles, the rumor was out that | was to have an inter-
view with Queen Juliana. | was at the home of Des-
mond Leslie when the telephone rang. It was a rep-
orter asking for verification of the interview. | admitt-
ed only that such a rumor existed, and did not con-
firm anything.

The reporter was cautioned not to publish anything
until it had been confirmed. He agreed to await con-
firmation, out of respect for Queen Juliana, but his
respect was apparently short-lived.

The Daily Herald of April 29th, 1959, London, pub-
lished the following article under the heading, ’’Ju-
liana’s New Joy — Flying Saucers’’. The reporter gave
this account: "| checked with Juliana’s secretary.
’Yes,’ the secretary said over the phone from Hol-
land. ’Her Majesty has asked Mr. Adamski to con-
fidential talks. More than that | cannot disclose. The
talk will be between the two of them alone.’ ”

The newspaper accounts which claimed | told rep-
orters of the forthcoming meeting with Queen Juliana
were entirely false. One thing is certain: the press
was furious. The reporters could not get any inform-
ation from me so they fabricated stories to save face
(and perhaps to protect their jobs!). Newspapers all
over the United States copied these false reports
and added comments as they passed them on.

An article in the Los Angeles Examiner of May
19th, entitled ‘In Dutch On Saucer Discussion,”
stated: "The press has given Adamski, from Los
Angeles, a chilly reception. The Catholic People’s
Party newspaper De Volkskrant, said, for example:
‘We are not opposed to a court jester on the green
lawns of the Royal Palace, provided he is not taken
for an astronomical philosopher.’ ”

Soon after the newspaper De Volkskrant criticized
my interview with Queen Juliana, several other Dutch
papers followed suit and began to speak in a critical
vein. The more dignified papers, however, presented
straightforward accounts like the following:

"QUEEN JULIANA SEES U.S. WRITER, Hour’s
Discussion on Space Travel, from our correspondent.
THE HAGUE, May 19th. Queen Juliana and the
Prince of the Netherlands today received, at Soest-
dijk Palace, Mr. George Adamski, the American
author of several books on space travel. The Queen
and Prince Bernhard had a talk lasting about an
hour with Mr. Adamski. It is understood that the talk
was of a purely informative character. The Queen
and Prince Bernhard wanted to become acquainted
with Mr. Adamski and his views.

"Those who were present at the conversation
included Mr. C. Kolff, president of the Royal Nether-
lands Society for Aviation, Lieutenant-General H.
Schaper, Chief of the Royal Netherlands Air Staff,
Professor Jongbloed, of Utrecht University, an expert
in medical science dealing with aviation, and Pro-
fessor Rooy, of Amsterdam University, who gives
lectures on mass communication.

"Mr. Adamski, who claims to have flown round the
moon in a flying saucer and to have been in contact
with inhabitants of the planet Venus, is lecturing in
The Hague and Amsterdam.”

As | am a common man with no title or position,
some newspapers questioned the Queen’s right to
invite me to the palace. A true ruler, or represen-
tative of the people, can gain knowledge from the
lowest as well as the highest sources.

The press called the Queen gullible and accused
her of falling for strange things. This is not true. She
is only interested in all new things of life, as a ruler
should be. We are living in times when on every
hand things are changing. Unless the rulers are well
informed, they cannot serve their people well.

Queen Juliana has the welfare of her people at
heart. Therefore she has an open mind that permits
her to look at all facets of life, not bowing to the
dictates of the few; and so she was not persuaded
to cancel the appointment.

At this time | will relate the true facts of my inter-

122 ufo contact

view with the Queen. They have never been pub-
lished before. The press reports quoting questions
and answers from the interview were falsified, as no
reporters were allowed inside the palace during the
interview!

| left London and arrived in Amsterdam on the
15th of May, 1959. Miss Rey d’Aquila and some news-
paper reporters were at the airport to meet me. |
was still suffering from the cold | had caught in
Scotland, so | excused myself and was taken to a
small hotel on the outskirts of Amsterdam.

The next afternoon | was called to a television
rehearsal for a program that was to be given that
evening. This was on May 16th, and | showed my
film on the program. The reception by the public of
my subject and the film was very good.

After the rehearsal, we drove back to the hotel,
picked up my luggage and left for The Hague. Miss
d’Aquila had arranged transportation by automobile,
and | arrived at The Hague about midnight.

My hotel was in a quiet residential district, across
the street from a beautiful park. The first day was
set aside for me to rest. That morning | unpacked
my camera and walked through the park to the
ocean. Several restful hours were spent strolling
around and photographing the local scenery.

| had been placed in this secluded hotel purposely
to avoid the press. When the newsmen could not
locate me, they became very irritated. Those in
charge of publicity would not say where | was stay-
ing, and the manager of the hotel had been given
orders not to reveal my presence. For one day and
evening | was able to relax.

On the morning of May 18th, | had breakfast and
readied myself for the visit to Soestdijk Palace near
Utrecht. The Palace car was to call for me at about
10.30 a.m. This was an informal meeting, so my bus-
iness suit was proper attire. | had been carefully
coached on the proper etiquette and conduct in the
presence of my royal hosts. When the car arrived,
| was introduced to the chauffeur who held the door
open as | entered. To evade the press, we avoided
the customary highway to the palace.

We entered the palace garden through a gate
opened by a guard who saluted smartly as we pass-
ed. | noticed the highway in front of the palace was
empty as we turned into the grounds. A winding
driveway, bordered by massive shrubs, brought us
to the huge entrance. My mind was so taken up in
trying to remember all the instructions | had been
given that | failed to notice much about the palace
itself, except that it was white. The chauffeur had
spoken very few words as we rode along and had
given me a mind to relieve my throat when | coughed.

It was 11.00 a.m. when the car stopped in front of
the entrance. A uniformed attendant opened the
door, saluted, and escorted me up the broad steps
to the palace doors, which were opened by two
doormen dressed in royal blue, who also saluted.
When | entered, one of these men helped me out
of my top coat and muffler; the other escorted me
into a large library with high ceiling.

| had been nervous with anticipation, but a feeling
of calm and ease came over me as | stood in the
presence of the Queen. She and the others present
were standing when | entered the room. The Queen’s
secretary came forward and introduced me to Her
Majesty, Queen Juliana. In turn, | was presented to
Prince Bernhard; Lt. General Schaper, Chief of the
Royal Netherlands Air Staff; Professor Jongbloed,
of Aerial Medicine; Dr. M. Rooy, Telecommunica-
tions; and Mr. Kolff, President of the Royal Nether-
lands Society for Aviation.

When the Queen acknowledged the introduction, |
completely forgot all the instructions and could not
remember the formalities that should have been foll-
owed. Instead, | acted upon my feelings and was at
ease, for here was a feeling of welcome as among
friends.

The Queen graciously asked if | drank coffee.
When | replied that | did, coffee was served in large
cups of beautiful design, while we remained stand-
ing. After all had been served, we were asked to be
seated. That coffee was the best | had had since
leaving America!

We were at one end of the library, seated in
lounge chairs assembled in a horseshoe position.
Directly across from me sat the Queen. Next to her
was the Prince, and on my right, next to the Prince,
was a gentleman who acted as spokesman for him.
As | remember, this gentleman was Mr. Kolff. Seated
on my left were the other three gentlemen already
named. The secretary was seated a little apart from
the others.

Small pastries were served, and as we sat enjoy-
ing the refreshments and indulging in informal con-
versation, | noted that Her Majesty wore a light blue
frock. The men were dressed in black suits with
white shirts and black ties.

Cigarettes were passed. Then the secretary opened
the topic for which | had been summoned. She ref-
erred to my two books and asked a question regard-
ing my trip around the moon. | was aware of having
been granted only forty-five minutes, so | made my
answers as brief as possible.

The astronomer and Air Force chief asked que-
stions next, trying to discredit the interplanetary
visitors. As | think of it now, perhaps my answer
was a little rude in the presence of royalty, for |
said: "| have known of no major officials of our Air
Force, and few astronomers, who have told what they
actually know about the visitors from space. It is a
known fact that the secret files and confidential
reports of the Air Force have never been released
to the public, or even to high officers in the govern-
ment. | am inclined to believe this applies to all
governments.” | think Her Majesty knew exactly what
| meant, for she gave a tiny smile of acknowledg-
ment.

| pointed out that most of the findings of our Earth
satellite had been published in my books at least
three years before.

Many questions were asked about inhabitants of

ufo contact 131

pulses come from the animal’s glands and its react-
ions are wholly automatic. The make-up of an animal
allows no room for freedom of choice, searching
curiosity or doubt or conflict between impulses and
ethical standards.

An animal knows nothing of that strange voice
called conscience, which tells us what is right and
what is wrong. Only Mankind is equipped with the
conflicts which arise, because it is created in God’s
Image. And only Mankind is equipped with a soul
which enables it to master the problems caused by
these conflicts.

Today, thousands of scientists are at work on the
most momentous task Mankind has ever faced: an
attempt to understand a physical Universe which is
unending in time and space, complicated in its detail
and impressive in its orderliness, and to understand
its origin and how it functions.

It is no longer a sufficient explanation of the aims
of science to say that it seeks to find the physical
laws which govern the Universe and increases Man-
kind’s control over it, because science’s field of
endeavour has increased in size. The basic elements
of science are collective experiences, observations
and the setting of certain goals at which to aim.
From these the scientist tries to make a model of
time, proportions and cause. When one gains new
knowledge the old model is not rejected, it is just
altered where the new knowledge points to an alter-
ation.

By reason of the fact that the scientist is willing
to alter his model of the Universe, he shows that
he does not demand to know the final truth. His
scientific laws are at most only re-writings of the
observations he has made.

The laws of science do not control the reality but
attempts only to explain it. Therefore the laws can
be altered when one attains new knowledge.

NEW AIMS.

The tasks which science sets itself are never-end-
ing. For truth is no static concept. For every new
answer arrived at, a dozen new concepts come into
view.

Science stands before new frontiers in many fields
of endeavour: the nucleus of the atom becomes more
and more enigmatic — the origin and composition of
the Universe is still shrouded in mystery — the inner
functions of living organisms still allow of no ex-
planation. Science’s Golden Age lies ahead of us.

The scientist works in an atmosphere where doubt
is an accepted fact of life and exaggerated ortho-
doxy taboo. Thomas Huxley says of the scientist:
"For him scepticism is a first duty and blind faith
an unforgivable sin’. A result of scientific progress
is that traditions, which are the buttresses of faith,
have been swept aside. The sciences and religion
have therefore often collided. And yet it is one of
the tragedies of our time that science and religion
have become adversaries. Because to achieve a sol-
ution of the conflict it has been tempting to adopt a
policy of peaceful co-existence, to divide our ex-

periences into two different areas, to give science
control over the one and religion control over the
other.

Let science explore the physical world, whilst
religion takes care of the other, people say. When
science has reached its limits, then religion can take
over and explain that which allows of no explanation.
This is a fateful step to take. To separate the two
worlds could only be done if scientists were not
Christians and no Christians were scientists. But
science and religion do not reign over two separate
kingdoms.

INVISIBLE.

It is not possible to build a wall between religion
and science. Gradually, as science is enabled to ex-
plain some of the mysteries of the Universe it comes
into areas which were previously unknown or only
accepted on a basis of faith.

Every new experience — physical or spiritual — must
fit into a pattern which gives both faith and mean-
ing. It is Mankind that explores the Universe, exper-
iments, and seeks for the truth. It is not just a detail,
it takes part itself in the process of creation. Man-
kind itself is the greatest result of the Creation.

The fact that more and more of the wonders of
Creation are being disclosed is of direct concern to
Mankind.

Science and religion can be compared with two
windows in a house, through which we can observe
the world around us or our neighbours. (There are
other windows to be found in the house: Art, Lite-
rature and History). Whatever we may see through
the windows of this imaginary house, it must fit in
with the model we have of the Universe and our
place in it.

Where it does not fit, we must alter the model,
alter our aim and try to increase our ability to under-
stand the Creation.

In our modern society it would appear that many
people think that the advances made by science
have caused such things as religious belief to be-
come out-of-place and old-fashioned. They cannot
understand why we should "’believe’’ in something,
when science can tell us that we know” so much.
The simple answer to this assertion is that we are
aware of more of nature’s mysteries today than
people were before the advent of scientific research.
There is absolutely no reason to believe that God
cannot retain His place in our modern times in the
same way as before we began to examine His Crea-
tion with telescope and ion-accelerators.

Even though science is no religion, it is, by nature
of its assumptions, its application and its search for
the truth, a religious function. The Creator reveals
Himself through His Creations. As Charles A. Coul-
son says: ’’Science helps us to create a picture of
God”. We must remember that science only exists
because there are people, and its concepts exist
only in people’s understanding. Behind these con-
cepts lies reality, which God can reveal to us.

ufo contact

Science

Science and God
DR. WERNHER VON BRAUN.

"It is one of the tragedies of our time, that science
and religion have become adversaries’, says Dr.
Wernher von Braun, who is one of the world’s lea-
ding space-researchers, head of the George C. Mar-
shall Space-travel Centre in Alabama, one of the
brains behind the Gemini Project and the U.S.A.’s
project for the first manned moon rocket, to be sent
up in 1969.

*

THE TWO STRONGEST FORCES which go to
create our present-day civilisation are science and
religion. Through science Man seeks to learn more
of the mysteries of Creation. Through religion he
seeks to understand the Creator.

They are not independent of each other. It is just
as difficult for me to understand a scientist who
cannot perceive a Higher Reality behind the origin
of the Universe, as it is to understand a theologian
who denies the advances made by science. Science
and religion are far from being independent of each
other, neither are they opposing forces; on the cont-
rary they are as brothers. Both are striving for a
better world. While science seeks to uncover the
forces of Nature around us, religion is trying to
discover the forces in Man himself.

As we gradually gain a greater knowledge of nat-
ure so we become more impressed and humbled by
its orderliness and never-failing perfection. Our ex-
tensive knowledge of the Universe and its laws has
made it possible for us to send people out from
their natural surroundings into unknown space and
bring them safely back to earth again.

ENDLESSNESS OF THE UNIVERSE.

Manned space-flights are pioneer works. But until
now they have only begun to open the door out
toward the endlessness of the Universe.

That which we can see of the mysteries of the
Universe through the crack in that door only con-
firms our belief in its Creator. Mankind with its
limited understanding cannot comprehend an omni-
present, almighty, all-knowing and eternal God.

Every attempt to create a picture of God and red-
uce Him so that He can be comprehended offers
but further proof of His Greatness. | believe it best
if one, through Faith, accepts God as a proof of
Goodwill, which throughout history manifests itself
more and more as the ability of Mankind to under-
stand, grows.

It gives peace of mind to think of God as the
Father of all, and the resultant thought, that all men
are brothers, is an ethical guide-line.

Scientists only know that in nature nothing is des-
troyed without being converted into energy. Not even
the tiniest particle can disappear without leaving a
trace. Nature knows nothing of annihilation, only
change. Would God have had less consideration for
His Masterpiece, the Human Soul?

For me immortality means a continuation of our
spiritual existence after death.

Mankind has had a belief in a life after death
since the dawn of history. This has been as essential
part of the primitive cultures’ religions and it has
been preserved in higher developed religions and
philosophies.

The significance of this is of far more importance
than the pronouncements of philosophers and theo-
logians about what we can expect when we leave
this world. From the dawn of time the conception of
immortality has had its influence on untold millions
of people.

THE SOUL DIVIDES MANKIND FROM
OTHER CREATIONS.

The soul separates Man from the animal. An
animal’s actions are dictated by its inborn impulses,
i.e. hunger, fear and self-preservation. These im-

UFO CONTACT WISHES TO OFFER ITS DEEPEST SYMPATHY TO
THE FAMILY OF A BRAVE SOVIET PIONEER —

COSMONAUT VLADIMIR KOMAROV
WHO DIED ON A SPACE VENTURE, APRIL 24th 1967.

ufo contact 123

other planets. | retold much of what | had written
in my second book. The major questions of our con-
ference dealt with our future in outer space.

Awareness of time was lost as we all grew inter-
ested in the conversation about outer space. What
began as a forty-five minute interview lasted two
hours. Finally the Queen reminded me that my lect-
ure started in less than an hour. Interest was so
great in the topic, if it had not been for the lecture,
we could have kept talking for hourse.

When the Queen reminded me of the time, | arose
and we all shook hands in a very friendly manner.
| was deeply impressed with the firm sincere grasp
of Her Majesty and the Prince. The spokesman for
the Prince escorted me to the car. During the con-
ference he had stated he would like to take a trip
with the space people and he repeated the request
as we descended the steps to the waiting car.

As we were leaving the Palace grounds, | noticed
a large group of people standing across the high-
way and facing the Palace. As the car came through
the gate, many of these people gave the familiar
salute. Possibly they only wanted to get a look at
the common man who had been granted a private
interview with the Queen, and whom the press had
described as an "objectionable”’ visitor. On the fast
trip back to the hotel, | noticed crowds of people
along the highway, saluting as we passed.

Arriving at the hotel, we found a car waiting to
take me to the lecture at The Hague. The Queen’s
chauffeur asked if he might attend the lecture and
was granted permission to do so.

Due to the long interview at the Palace, | arrived
twenty minutes late at the lecture hall where a cap-
acity crowd was waiting. The people present were
filled with curiosity and anticipation in regard to my
meeting with Queen Juliana. Reporters especially
were insistent that | give them all the details. This |
could not do, for the meeting had been on a level of
dignity that denied me the privilege of speaking
until the Queen spoke first. All | could say was:
"The Queen was very kind, and if there were more
people like her the world would be a better place
to live in.’ A tremendous burst of applause took
place, and from there on the lecture proceeded as
normal.

After the lecture, the reporters crowded around
me asking, ’’What did the Queen say?” "It is the
Queen’s honor to speak first,” | replied. This made
the press very dissatisfied with me. Some went so
far as to write up a fictitious interview, complete
with questions and answers.

When | returned to my hotel | was grateful that no
one knew where | was, for now | could relax and go
over the events of the day.

A radio was in my room, and the next morning |
tuned it to the BBC since I could not understand
the Dutch of local stations. On an early-morning
program called The News of Europe, | was very
much surprised to hear a report from a Russian sci-
entist stating that the moon was not composed of
volcanic dust, but rather of granite formations sim-

ilar to Earth. Many green spots that looked like
vegetation had been observed on the other side of
the moon. This confirmed some of the things | had
told the Queen during our two-hour conference.

| was curious to know just how the Russians had
gained this information. My friends and | discussed
the possibilities later that morning. Was it possible
that a Russian had made a trip as | had, or did they
receive the information from their moon shot that
went into orbit around the sun? (Information received
at the time of this writing seems to confirm that they
did.)

Before the morning was over | was asked if |
would accept an interview with Fox Movietone in
downtown Hague. | would be called for and taken to
the appointed place so | agreed.

The selected place was a large hotel in the centre
of town. Our car was parked across the street from
the building. | was told to walk across the street and
enter the hotel. Camera were ready and set for ope-
ration, but | had to rehearse the walk several times
before pictures were finally taken. In the final take,
the large glass doors, framed in brass, opened auto-
matically and | entered the hotel.

| was greeted by many people, including the man-
ager of the hotel, and received the customary salute.
This was not photographed. | was taken to a large
room where cameras and sound equipment were in
place. Here | was seated beside a small mahogany
table which held a bouquet of American Beauty
roses. My interrogator was seated on my right. His
first question was: ’’The world wants to know what
the Queen had to say.”

My answer was that Her Majesty and His Royal
Highness were deeply interested in the future of
outer space development. The interrogator was very
dissatisfied with my reply and tried to get me to
relate our conversation in some detail. When | ref-
used, he hurried through the other questions, and the
news conference was over. | was told this newsreel
would be shown all over the world, but I have no
reports of it ever having been shown.

It is interesting to note that, after my visit to the
Palace, wherever | went in Holland | received the
salute from those who recognised me. Perhaps this
is a customary honor paid to one who has been
received by the Queen.

On Friday May 22nd, | received an invitation from
the manager of the City Theatre in downtown Am-
sterdam, to attend the preview of an Italian film,
Death Comes From Outer Space.

The death that came from outer space was a gig-
antic asteroid travelling at terrific speed directly
toward the earth. This asteroid was formed from all
the debris blown into space by our atomic and hyd-
rogen explosions. The people of the Earth were in a
panic, for they were warned that at any moment it
could hit our planet and cause complete destruction.
Meanwhile, huge tidal waves and heavy earthquakes
were wreaking havoc in many places throughout the
world,

124 ufo contact

The scientists of all nations called upon the mil-
itary in every other nation to aim their atomic miss-
iles at the asteroid and to fire simultaneously. In
this way the asteroid was destroyed by the same
weapons that had caused its creation.

Representatives of the press were present at the
showing. After it was over, | was asked if such a
thing could happen in real life. | replied that it could
and gave the following explanation:

"The lightning bolt is created from invisible par-
ticles of matter that are fused together by the terr-
ific heat of a natural electrical discharge. It is entirely
possible for the millions of tons of debris that have
been blown into the upper regions of the earth’s
atmosphere to come together and form an artificial
asteroid. The larger the mass of debris, the more
attraction it would have for additional particles.”

This picture alerted me to the possibility that rad-
iation and fallout are not the only dangers we might
be facing from our atomic explosions.

Reports have come from Mexico stating that a
huge fireball crashed into a mountain just before the
disastrous earthquake there in August of 1959.

Recently several planes have reportedly hit objects
from space. Some have survived; others have cras-
hed to their doom. Could they have crashed into
some of the high-energy pockets left by our explos-
ions?

Some of these man-made asteroids burn and glow,
and could be mistaken for ordinary meteorites. This
may also be the answer to some of the fireballs that
have been reported.

By the way of closing this chapter, | would like to
reproduce in part a letter concerning the lecture in
Amsterdam, sent to co-workers in The Netherlands
area. It was written by Miss Rey d’Aquila, dated
June 13th, 1959, and reads as follows:

"At the end of the lecture in Amsterdam, Pro-
fessor E. L. Seelliger of Bergen (NH), physicist and
former Delft Professor, stepped on the platform and
thanked ’our friend Adamski’ in public for the things
that he had brought us. Quoting him exactly: ’The
things that we have heard may sound strange to most
of us, if not all, but strange things happen every
day, if our eyes are open. | hope that we will be
open-minded and benefit from the things we have
heard today.’

"The audience applauded heartily. (Inside inform-
ation: Professor Seelliger is in good relation to the
Queen and if we take his mental courage and her
interest and deep understanding, we may conclude
that after all George Adamski’s visit to our country
has been a successful one and the stepping stone
to a better future.)’”’

Regarding my interview with the Queen, | will
again quote from the report: ’’But one thing we can
say for sure, no press reporters were present. So
what the press had further to say about his audience
was a big lie from the first to the last line! Paris
Match, for instance, carried a wholly imaginative
‘Interview With The Queen’, complete with questions
and answers!”

| wish those imaginative reporters could have been
present during my interview with Queen Juliana. They
might have learned something of dignity, kindness
and gentility, from a great woman.who rules her
country with wisdom and love.

From: ’’Flying Saucers Farewell’? 1961,
by George Adamski.

UFOLOGY

A proposal to UNO

PRESS RELEASE NO. 6.

February 2nd, 1967. New York.
RELEASED BY
Intercontinental UFO Observer and
Analytic Network,
Colman VonKeviczky representative, 33-50
75th Street 1C., Jackson Heights, N.Y. 11372. U.S.A.
SUBJECT.

The Intercontinental UFO Observer and Analytic
Network, representing the globally united scientific
UFO research analysts /Press Rel., Jan. 11th, 1967/,
have requested U.N. Secretary General U Thant, for
invitation of the world leading scientists pioneering
in UFO studies, pioneer UFO expert researchers, to
the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Conference, to be
held September, 1967 in Vienna; to study first hand
the evidence and earthly reconnaissance of uniden-
tified power/s/ by UFOs from other celestial bodies.

Representation should be headed by the nations-
wide awarded space and rocket scientist ’’father of
astronautics’”’ Prof. Dr. Hermann Oberth and a world
wide documentation should be furnished and exhib-
ited by the Intercontinental UFO Network, support-
ing the statements of the scientists’ representation.

Request based on a resolution of the General Ass-
embly 21st:Session /Dec. 19 and 21, 1966/ that the
UN is privileged to invite Special Agencies to the
Conference related to the subject.

Following is the next of the Memorandum address-
ed on February 1st, 1967 to His Excellency U Thant,
Secretary General of the United Nations:

My dear Secretary General — Your Excellency,

The Intercontinental UFO Observer and Analytic
Network respectfully request that you, chairman of
the Outer Space Affairs Committee, his Excellency,
Dr. Kurt Waldheim, Ambassador of Austria to the
U.N. and the General Assembly, invite a represent-
ation of the world’s leading scientists pioneering in
UFO studies, expert UFO research pioneers to the
Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space
to be held September, 1967 in Vienna. Our request
is in relation to the resolution of the General Ass-
embly, 21st Session, which took place on 20 and 22
December, 1966, and whose privilege it is to invite

ufo contact

Fresco in the Dechany Monastery (Yugoslavia). The
angels look as if they were flying in spacecraft.

The icon, The Resurrection of our Lord Jesus
Christ’. (17th century) from the Moscow Theological
Academy. ’’The House of the Lord’’ resembles a
space ship.

128 ufo contact

fantasy, others think that initially it had some
meaning. Two centuries ago the mystery attracted
the German astronomer, Johan Kepler, while more
recently, scientists held an international symposium
to discuss the matter.

But neither Kepler nor contemporary scientists
found the key to the problem, which may turn out to
have an altogether unexpected solution.

In antiquity and the Middle Ages human imaginat-
ion was stirred by an unusual star, now believed to
be the Star of Bethlehem. The star was alleged to
be able to move and stop.

From that let us turn to the Christian Apocrypha-
books banned by Church censorship from services
and religious reading. The Apocrypha reflects man’s
efforts to explain the most dramatic mysteries of life.
These books sometimes stand in direct contradiction
of Church-approved texts.

A familiar one about early Christianity is called
"The Tale About the Three Magi”. The original vers-
ion must have been written in Latin in the middle
of the third century at the earliest, and later trans-
lated into many languages. A 15th-century Byelo-
russian translation made five centuries before the
space era contains a highly unusual interpretation of
the tale. The star, it says, was watched by astron-
omers (this is the actual word used) in many Oriental
countries. Once it appeared at night and "lit up the
whole of the sky as the sun does.’’ Then the star
hung over Mount Vans for a whole day, after which
it alighted on the mountain like an eagle.

The text contains a reference to ’’certain books”
which claim that Christ came down from that star.
"But it was different from the one pictured in our
churches. It had wings, the kind an eagle has, and
many long rays.’’, which sent it moving in a circle
when it descended upon Mount Vans.

This version of the old story unexpectedly introd-
uces a new image and a new idea, both sharply at
variance with the church texts. Without question, the
apocryphal version is fantastic. But it is hardly more
fantastic than the approved canonic version. What
was at the basis of the author’s fantasy? That, too,
is shrouded in mystery.

ANGELS IN FLYING MACHINES.

The Dechany Monastery in Kosovskaya Metehia,
southern Yugoslavia, was built in the first half of the
14th century, and by 1350 contained numerous fresc-
oes on subjects from the Old and New Testaments.

In the spring of 1964 more frescoes were found in
the monastery. The Yugoslav magazine Svet publis-
hed photographs entitled: "Spaceships on the Dec-
hany Crucifix, Sputniks in our frescoes, Could anci-
ent icon-painters have depicted spaceships in Dec-
hany?” It did not take a journalist's imagination to
think up titles like these. Dechany frescoes actually
depict angels flying in spaceships like the present
sputniks.

Two ships are shown flying one after the other
from west to east. Sitting in the lead ship is a man

without an angel’s halo. He holds an unseen ’’control
column” and looks behind him as if watching the
flight of his fellow-spaceman. Sitting in the space-
ship following is another man, who also has nothing
in common with the traditional angel and also has
one hand on the "'controls’’.

Both ships have streamlined bodies. Clearly visible
jets in their wake accentuate the impression of
speed. ’’The saints in the flying machines are in the
position of pilots’, says the magazine.

Angels watching the flight cover their eyes and
ears with their hands and seem to be backing away
for fear of being blinded of deafened. Below, two
groups are pictured, every face portraying surprise,
fear, or perplexity. The central figure represents the
crucified Christ.

The fresco depicting the Resurrection of Christ
looks just as odd. The Messiah looks as if he is in a
rocket which has not yet begun to move, explains
the Yugoslav magazine. Indeed, the vehicle looks
very much like a space rocket, with a two-wing stab-
ilizer in its upper part. With his right hand Christ is
trying to lift aboard the ship one of the people
standing on the ground before starting on his way
to the heavenly kingdom.

Monks at Dechany, to whom experts turned for an
explanation, replied that apparently the drawings of
“ships” are pictures of the Sun and the Moon.
According to New Testament legend, Christ was
crucified during a solar eclipse. But why the ’’sun”’
is depicted rising in the west the monks could not
say.

One of the papers on the Dechany miracle refers
to a hypothesis saying that Christ was a man who
came down to Earth from space. The magazine
comments that such ideas are ’’overbold’’, that the
hypothesis, if confirmed, ’’would basically alter the
Biblical story about Christ’. The frescoes, it is noted,
showing objects obviously resembling sputniks, "baff-
le layman and specialist alike.”

The Dechany ’’Miracle’”’ is not unique. An icon in
the Church Archaeology Study of the Moscow Theo-
logical Academy, called The Resurrection of Jesus
Christ and dating back to the 17th century, shows
Christ in a streamlined container which vaguely
resembles a spaceship standing on the ground.
Smoke billows from both sides of the container’s
lower part, enveloping the legs of the angels who
watch from the sidelines. Just as on the Dechany
fresco, Christ’s right hand lifts a man (the church
version identifies him with Adam). Eve waits for her
turn on the other side.

The icon is surely of an apocryphal nature. There
may have been a written version presenting a non-
canonical view of Christ’s resurrection and ascens-
ion, but if there is, nothing is known about it. Poss-
ibly it was destroyed by Church censors or else it
disappeared with time. Or perhaps the manuscript
exists undiscovered, in which case it may have
inspired icon (or mural) painters to present space
episodes. (Continued).

ufo contact 125

to the Conference Special Agencies related to the
subject.

The proposed representation should be headed by
the world’s most highly honored, awarded and res-
pected scientist in the field of Space and Rockets —
the "father of astronautics’” Prof. Dr. Hermann
Oberth. The team of scientists should be completed
according to enclosure No. 1. with highly competent
scientific UFO researchers whose statements can
be screened and verified on the basis of various
documentation media in possession of our world-wide
analytic network, such as; existing records of the
UFO observers, embracing continental documentation
by historical background, statistics, photographs,
motion pictures, and other documentations exhibited
and witnessed by originators, about the UFOs and
their global reconnaissance activities.

As a former international civil servant on your
staff, and founder of the Intercontinental UFO Net-
work, supporting our request, may | call your attent-
ion to the constructive and progressive values of my
proposals, submitted during the last year, to your
cabinet, assisting voluntarily the UFO problem within
the framework of the UN, which have already been
realized during the past 11 months.

1) The PROJECT UN-UFO, the organization scheme
of an international analytic team within your staff,
to keep under control the UFO global surveillance,
and its 135 documentation, has been objected to by
the government of the United States of America as
nonsense”... but in spite of this, the same gov-
ernment, instead of investing money in the investig-
ation at the U.N. has, three months later, invested
300 thousand dollars for the same purpose in the
Colorado University. The U.S. government has cas-
ually been investigating UFO cases, classified as
Confidential’ since 1944, under project names, such
as, Sigma, Grudge, and Bluebook. Valuated back-
wards this represents budgetary expenditures amount-
ing to more millions of dollars.

2) The INTERCONTINENTAL SPACE SECURITY
PACT proposal, submitted to your cabinet on May 10,
1966 has been accepted in part, in that the Articles
No., 1. Il. V. and Par., 1.2.3.4.5. 14., therein have
been transferred to the Governing Principles of
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Treaty, which was
negotiated in the Outer Space Committee, — a res-
olution adopted by acclamation by the General Ass-
embly last December 19, and signed by 62 nations,
exploring in outer space. The transplanted articles of
the mentioned Security Pact are as follows:

a. earth and earthman security — supreme constit-
utional authority of UN in relation to outer space
in articles No. I.III.V.IX.

. establishment of international responsibility for
damages by exploring nations in articles No. VI.
and VII.

. astronauts to be considered envoys of the UN.,
expressed as "envoys of mankind” in articles
No. V.

. not prohibited of high explosive weapons in
manned space crafts for self defense in outer

space and celestial bodies, in article No. VI.

. all "’phenomena” observed in space and cel-
estial bodies to be reported to the Secretary
General in article No. V. is exactly an "unex-
plained UFO Article” from article No. V.

The enclosure No. 2. clearly shows, that these
articles were not proposed in the original issues of
the Treaty Draft’ by the United States filed 24
hours before, — while the USSR filed 20 days after
my Space Security Pact proposal, which had been
filed and issued to all the UN Missions on June 27,
1966. See the enclosed letter to the Perm. Mission
of Italy to the UN. /Enclosure No. 2./ (Enclosures
No’s 2 and 3 are not included as we have dealt at
length with these items in previous issues of UFO
CONTACT - Ed.)

In the enclosure No. 3 you will find the constitut-
ional build up for the Intercontinental UFO Observer
& Analytic Network. The Press Release for which,
dated January 11, 1967, was usually silenced as...
not in the public interest’.

In spite of all this, there has been an increase of
UFO appearances in the past year and a growing
impatience on the part of the public with the gov-
ernments’ policies in this regard. We are convinced
now more than ever that this proposal to accept
information from world famous authorities will meet
with the wholehearted approval of the United Nations.
For the first time perhaps, an opportunity will be
afforded to study first hand the voluminous evidence
that has heretofore been suppressed.

It is a special honor for us to assist the United
Nations through our continental representation in the
UFO problem.

We are awaiting your information regarding our
proposal. In behalf of our continental representat-
ives, | remain

very respectfully yours
signature
Colman VonKeviczky

3 enclosures.

ICUFON ENCLOSURE NO. 1.
The Intercontinental UFO Observer and Analytic
Network proposes to invite, to the Outer Space
Conference, /Sept., 1967, Vienna/ the following:

A. SCIENTISTS.
Prof. Dr. Hermann Oberth internationally acclaimed
rocket scientist, UFO researcher. GERMANY.
Prof. Dr. Gabriel Alvial director of Cosmic Radiation
Institute, Santiago. CHILE.

Prof. Dr. Alexander Kazantsev Soviet radio astron-
omer and archeologist. USSR.

Prof. Dr. Carl Sagan noted astronomer and astro
physicist, member of NASA. USA.

Prof. Dr. Mitrovan Zverer radio astronomer. USSR.

Representative of Colorado University, UFO research
project. USA.

B. SCIENTIFIC RESEARCHERS.
Knut Hammarskjold general director of the intern’1
Air Transport Association. CANADA.

126 ufo contact

Prof. Dr. Allen J. Hynek astronomer, UFO investig-
ator since 20 years at Air Force. USA.

Donald E. Keyhoe US major ret., pioneer UFO res-
earcher, founder of NICAP. USA.

Jacques Vallee mathematician and astronomer of
Northwestern University, Mars Map Project. USA.

C. PIONEER UFO RESEARCHERS IN GLOBAL
COVERAGE.

Arduino Albertini Italian research analyst, editor of
"Clypeus’”. SOUTH EUROPE & ASIA MINOR.
Dr. Walter Biihler research analyst investigator,
Pres. of Brazilian UFO Res. Org: SOUTH AME-

RICA & ANTARCTIC.

Ronald Caswell editor of "UFO CONTACT”. Inter-
national research analyst. NORTH EUROPE.

Eng. Leonard G. Cramp noted technical analyst and
technical writer. British Interplanetary Society.

Coral E. Lorenzen founder of the APRO /Aerial
Phenomena Research Organization/. NORTH
AMERICA AND ARCTIC.

Yusuke Matsumura Japanese pilot, UFO expert
photogr. and analyst, Pres. of Cosmic Brotherhood
Ass. FAR EAST - ASIA.

Eng. Aimé Michel French mathematician, scientific
researcher, noted writer. M. EAST, EUROPE.

Hans C. Petersen Danish Air Force major, resear-
cher, co-editor of "UFO CONTACT” bi-monthly.
MIDDLE EUROPE.

Edgar Sievers scientific research analyst. AFRICA.

Brinsley Le Poer Trench pioneer British researcher,
chairman of the Intern’l Sky Scouts. FAR EAST —
OCEANIA.

Karl L. Veit Pres. of DUIST, noted European UFO
analyst, writer-publisher and editor of UFO Nach-
richten’’. EUROPE,

D. DOCUMENTATION.

Globally collected documentation should be exhib-
ited and carried out by the Intercontinental UFO
Observer and Analytic Network — classified in three
Parts:

1. The UFO Evidence. 2. The Space Ships.

3. The Planetarians.

*

A Soviet contribution

IT IS RARE INDEED that we read or hear of the
Russian views on '’Flying Saucers”, although, in the
fifties they were referred to as an example of Ame-
rican ’’war psychosis”. However, in this issue of UFO
CONTACT, you can read an account of recent Soviet
moves regarding the UFO-case. (See "Soviet Radar
Spots UFO”’.)

Here, below, we bring you a Russian writer’s acc-
ount of his research into the problems and mysteries
of extraterrestrial visitations. Condensed from the
book Na Sushe i na more’ — "On Land and at
Sea” — we can see how the writer has followed many
of the same threads of Biblical and pre — History as

have a number of his Western contemporaries. The
author has spent 30 years collecting evidence to
back up his thesis that intelligent beings from outer
space have had contact with our Earth. He has
written two books, "Cosmic Reminiscences in Written
Relics of the Past’, and The Evolution of the Univ-
erse and Intelligent Beings.”

With acknowledgements to the ’’SPUTNIK” month-
ly digest, Jan. 1967, we present the article in two
parts. Here is Part One, of —

Visitors from outer space

by
Vyacheslav Zaitsev.

Expanding knowledge about the Universe usually
means more puzzles than discoveries. As man un-
ravels each new mystery, he is assailed by fresh
doubts and torments, for he has caught a glimpse
of another mystery lying ahead. For the explorer —
in any field — it is probably this yet undiscovered
territory vaguely seen in the distance that sparks the
search for knowledge.

A report by a Chinese archaeologist startled the
world when it was published in 1965, for he had out
of old bits of knowledge pieced together an amazing
theory of space-ships on a visit to the earth 12,000
years ago. The German magazine, ’’Das Vegetarische
Universum’’, wrote of his research:

"For a quarter of a century archaeologists explor-
ing caves in the Bayan-Kara-Ula Mountains, on the
border of China and Tibet, have been finding old-
looking stone discs covered with unreadable patterns
and hieroglyphs. A total of 716 such discs have been
discovered, apparently dating back several thous-
and years.

"Like a gramophone record, each disc has a hole
in its centre from which a double groove spirals its
way to the circumference. The grooves are not
sound-tracks, but the oddest writing in China and
indeed the rest of the world.”

Archaeologists and decipherers of ancient writing
racked their brains trying to solve the secret of the
spirals. The result of the research by the Chinese
archaeologist was so shattering that the Peking Aca-
demy of Pre-History banned publication of his work.
Eventually permission was obtained and the prof-
essor and his four colleagues published their coll-
ective effort under the intriguing title "Groove
Writing Relating to Spaceships which, as Recorded
on the Discs, Existed 12,000 Years Ago.”

The caves high up in the Bayan-Kara-Ula Moun-
tains are inhabited by the Ham and Dropa tribes —
frail, stunted men averaging four feet two inches in
height. So far they have defied ethnic classification.
In fact, any detailed information about the tribes is
extremely scarce.

When deciphered, one of the hieroglyphs presum-
ably set down by an ancient member of the Ham
tribe read: "The Dropas came down from the clouds
in their gliders. Our men, women and children hid in

ufo contact 127

the caves ten times before the sunrise. When at last
they understood the sign language of the Dropas,
they realized that the newcomers had peaceful int-
entions .. .”

Another Ham hieroglyph expresses regret over the
loss of the tribe’s own spaceships during a danger-
ous landing in high mountains, and the failure to
build new ones.

In the opinion of Chinese archaeologists, the
Bayan-Kara-Ula hieroglyphs are so mysterious that
their interpretation and use for scientific research
require the utmost care.

To obtain further information, the discs were
scraped free of adhering rock particles and sent to
Moscow for study. Scientists there made two import-
ant discoveries. The discs were found to contain a
large amount of cobalt and other metals — a shaking
discovery. Further investigation revealed that the
discs vibrate in an unusual rhythm, as if they carried
an electric charge or were part of an electric circuit.
The 12,000 year-old discs remain a challenge to
science.

Legends of ancient China say that small, gaunt,
yellow-faced men came down from the clouds, But
earthly tribesmen felt a revulsion for the visitors,
whose enormous heads and extremely thin, weak
bodies made them look ugly, and ’’some people on
fast horses’? beat them.

Reality seems to confirm the legends. In some of
the Bayan-Kara-Ula caves archaeologists and spel-
eologists have found 12,000 year-old vestiges of
graves and skeletons. The remains belong to human
beings with huge craniums and underdeveloped skel-
etons. The Chinese expeditions which discovered
the grounds reported they had found "an extinct
species of ape.” But so far as is known apes do not
bury each other in graves or write hieroglyphic sym-
bols on stone discs.

What makes the issue doubly involved is that the
inner walls of the caves are covered in many places
with pictures of the rising sun, the moon, and the
stars, spaced by a multitude of pea-sized dots (poss-
ibly tiny pictures) which seem to be approaching the
Earth in a mountain area.

CELESTIAL EGGS.

Peruvian legend has it that the ancient inhabitants
of Peru were born from bronze, gold and silver eggs
which had fallen from heaven. The tale is cited but
left without comment in Jean Elisee Reclus’ famous
book "La Terre.”

A variant of the egg legend is featured in the
famous Tassili frescoes, which were found in the
heart of the Sahara by a French lieutenant named
Brenand. Shortly afterwards the place was examined
by a French expedition led by Henri Lotte, who later
wrote The Search for the Frescoes of Tassili. In
addition to pictures of animals and hunting scenes,
the frescoes depict strange figures dressed in what
looks like spacesuits and spherical helmets. The
helmets are definitely attached to the suits, which
evoke no associations with ritual headdress or hunt-

ing gear. Nor is there any association with the hunt-
ers who, as some scholars assume, used ostrich egg-
shells for helmets. Lotte called the enigmatic figures
Martians.

Describing the ancient drawings on the cave walls
the French explorer says that one of them depicts
”a man appearing from an egg-shaped object cov-
ered with concentric circles. The object resembles
an egg, or possibly a snail.’’

So the Peruvian legend and the Tassili frescoes
seem to have much in common. But the parallel does
not end there. At a later date, in yet another part of
the world, the same subject was treated by ancient
Greek sculptors, certain of whom portrayed Castor
and Pollux of Dioscuria, as well as Helen and Neme-
sis, with remnants of egg-shells on their heads, for
according to Greek mythology they arose from
celestial eggs.

How did the odd idea of man’s birth from an egg
take shape? Perhaps by analogy with birds or fish?
But why falling from the sky? One Latin American
legend says that eggs dropped down from the sky
on dandelions! The absence of any existing inter-
pretation of this art leaves the door open for what
must seem a fantastic assumption: that the legend
of the celestial eggs, like any other myth or legend,
could have originated from bonafide impressions of
an actual event. An ancient man may once have seen
a container with a human being in it descend from
the sky, and imagined that the visitor was emerging
from a celestial egg.

*VISITING CARDS” OF SPACE TRAVELLERS.

During excavations at different times in Japan
archaeologists found figurines (dogu) depicting a
kind of human or anthropoid in odd-looking "’space
suits’”’ and with helmets wholly covering their heads.
On the helmets were visible marks of something like
slit-type glasses, breath-filters, antennae, hearing
aids and even nightsight devices.

Reviewing the latest Soviet space achievements,
the German magazine Freie Welt in issue No. 12,
1966, printed a selection of rock drawings and phot-
ographs of dogu under the humorous title, ’’Visiting
Cards?”, declaring that such drawings and figurines
might be construed as proof that the Earth was once
visited by space beings.

Many similar rock pictures have been discovered
throughout the world. There are pictures of space-
men on cave walls in the Val Comonique, the Swiss
Alps, in Australia, close to Fergana and near the
city of Navoi, in Soviet Central Asia.

Puzzles that may have started with a space visit
are contained in legends and myths. Legends of Au-
stralia, the Near East, South and Central America
and the Far East all tell of the descent of gods from
the sky. They offer food for thought.

THE STAR OF BETHLEHEM.
The phrase "Star of Bethlehem” is twenty cent-
uries old. Some regard it as a product of sheer

October 3, 1967

Mr. Ra f obinson
809 South Stewart Street
Winchester, Virginia 22601

Dear Mr. Robinson:

Your letter of September 27th, with enclosure,
has been received.

The investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects
is not and never has been a matter that is within the investiga-
tive Loe eect ton oe oe FBI. aS can assure ou the photograph

you ad does n eS I S of this on a

Enclosed is some material eitee to the : wee of
this Bureau which I hope will be of interest to you. Also, the
photograph you forwarded is being returned.

MAILED 19 Sincerely yours,

OCT 3 1967

J. Ede
gar Ho
COMM - FB} ear “Ho Over

Enclosures (3) iter bie = >
se ,fiue [WH

Know Your FBI
The Story of the Federal tpufbad of Investigation

—— NOTE: Correspondent is hot identifiable in Bufiles. The photograph in

Bishop question has previously come to the Bureau's attention and is known to

Ealaton —— have appeared in a publication in Europe concerning unidentified flying
objectss.A caption undef the’ photograph alleges twosBI Agents are

a ») spacing 4 a ey from outer space down the street.

Fal

sabi Van =

4
el L 4 -
Te —— pe P: zit 1 \ OY yn?
Holmes = — { t 7 . ‘a
eat maiL Room C_] reverype unit L_] a F A

TRUE COPY

Dear Sirs:
Would you please comment on the enclosed
picture that is marked with an ''X" and return the picture

with your reply. Thank you.

/s/ Ray Robinson

809 S. Stewart St.
Winchester, Va. 22601

OPTIONAL. FORM NO. 10 5010-107-02
om 1962 EDITon
G@

UNITED STATES placate €
Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 10/10/67

€ ,/ DALLAS (62-0)
yr
SUBJECT: NIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT

DALLAS, TEXAS, 10/9/67
INFORMATION CONCERNING

Enclosed are six copies of an LHM containing information
of interest to the Air Force. One copy has been furnished to
OSI, Tinker AFB, Oklahoma,

The information in the enclosed LHM was received by
SA EARL O, CULLUM.

No further information is being taken.

2 - Bureau (encls-6) ily
1 - Dallas 18 OCT €% 1967

f
YS,

TAL Wars,
ot) a
(OCT 19 1967

uy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Dallas, Texas

In Reply, Please Refer to
File. No. October 10, 1967

Re: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS:
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT
_ DALLAS, TEXAS.
“OCTOBER 9, 1967

A young white female, who refused to give her name,
appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 9, 1967. She
stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
from outer space. She stated she will not reveal her identity
as she would feel like a fool if this information is not true.
She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
nothing is done to endanger her safety.

She stated in July, 1967, she met a being from another
planet who had assumed earthly form. He gave her certain
information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
on August 21, 1967. She stated she then received messages from
non-earthly sources in a manner she refused to discuss. She
stated these sources told her of the following:

(1) An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
over Africa on May 22, 1962, but the UFO
was protected by its "force field."

(2) A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
radar about August 6, 1967.

(3) A UFO was detected over Antartica August 20,
1967.

(4) A UFO was detected over the "Dewline" in the
past week and was shot down, and beings from
outer space are trying to recover it.

Informant would furnish no further details. She stated
if this information is true, she will knéw other information

This document contains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency. It and
its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency. i

ENCLOSURE

UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT

DALLAS, TEXAS

OCTOBER 9, 1967

SHé received is true, and will furnish full details. This will
include information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle by beings from outer space, and how those beings shot
down the Russian Cosmonaut.

She stated she fears for her life if it becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past. She stated if Air Force officials
want to contact her she can be reached by a message to a telephone
number she has given an FBI Agent, and she will meet officials
at the Dallas FBI Office only.

*

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to Dallas, Texas
File No. October 10, 1967

Re; UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;

A young white female, who refused to give her nane,
appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 8, 1967. She
stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
from outer space. She stated she will not reveal her identity
as she would feel like a fool if this information is not true.
She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
nothing is done to endanger her safety.

She stated in July, 1967, she met a being from another
planet who had assumed earthly form. He gave her certain
information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
on August 21, 1967. She stated she then received messages from
non-earthly sources in a manner she refused to discuss. She
stated these sources told her of the following:

(1) An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
over Africa on May 22, 1962, but the UFO
was protected by its “force field.”

(2) A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
radar about August 6, 1967.

(3) A UFO was detected over Antartica August 20,
1967.

(4) A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
past week and was shot down, and beings from
outer space are trying to recover it.

Informant would furnish no further details. She stated
if this information is true, she will know other information

This document contains neither recommendations
mor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency. It and
its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency.

UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT

DALLAS, TEXAS

OCTOBER 9, 1967

SH@® received is true, and will furnish full details. This will
include information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle by beings from outer space, and how those beings shot
down the Russian Cosmonaut.

She stated she fears for her life if it becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past. She stated if Air Force officials
want to contact her she can be reached by a message to a telephone
number ghe has given an FBI Agent, and she will meet officials
at the Dallas PBI Office only.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas, Texas
Wem ee October 10, 1967

Re: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT
DALLAS, TEXAS

OCTOBER 9, 1967

A young white female, who refused to give her name,
appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 9, 1967. She
stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
from outer space. She stated she will not reveal her identity
as she would feel like a fool if this information is not true.
She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
nothing is done to endanger her safety.

She stated in duly, 1967, she met a being from another
planet who had assumed earthly form. He gave her certain
information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
on August 21, 1967. She stated she then received messages from
non-earthly sources in a manner she refused to discuss. She
stated these sources told her of the following:

(1) An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
over Africa on May 22, 1962, but the UFO
was protected by its “force field.”

(2) A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
radar about August 6, 1967.

(3) A UFO was detected over Antartica August 20,
1967

(4) A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
past week and was shot down, and beings from
outer space are trying to recover it.

Informant would furnish no further details. She stated
if this information is true, she will knéw other information

This document contains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency. It and
its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency.

Re: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT

DALLAS, TEXAS
OCTOBER 9, 1967

Sh@ received is true, and will furnish full details. This will
include information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle by beings from outer space, and how those beings shot
Gewn the Russian Cogmonaut.

She stated she fears for her life if it becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past. She stated if Air Force officials
want to contact her she can be reached by a message to a telephone
number she has given an FBI Agent, and she will meet officials
at the Dallas FBI Office only.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to Dallas, Texas
File No. October 10, 1967

Re: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT

DALLAS, TEXAS
OCTOBER 9, 1967

A young white female, who refused to give her name,
appeared at the Dallas FBI Office on October 9, 1967. She
stated she is interested in Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)
and has received a quantity of information concerning beings
from outer space. She stated she will not reveal her identity
as she would feel like a fool if this information is not true.
She stated if it is true, however, she will meet with interested
officials and furnish all the information she has, provided
nothing is done to endanger her safety.

She stated in July, 1967, she met a being from another
planet who had assumed earthly form. He gave her certain
information, then he was picked up and departed from the earth
on August 21, 1967. She stated she then received messages from
non-earthly sources in a manner she refused to discuss. She
stated these sources told her of the following:

(1) An antimissile missile was fired at a UFO
over Africa on May 22, 1962, but the UFO
was protected by its "force field."

(2) A UFO was detected 22,000 miles from earth by
radar about August 6, 1967.

(3) A UFO was detected over Antartica August 20,
1967.

(4) A UFO was detected over the "Dewline” in the
past week and was shot down, and beings from
outer space are trying to recover it.

Informant would furnish no further details. She stated
if this information is true, she will knOw other information

This document contains neither recommendations
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency. It and
its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency.

@

UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS;
ANONYMOUS INFORMANT

DALLAS, TEXAS

OCTOBER 9, 1967

She received is true, and will furnish full details. This will
include information regarding the destruction of a moon explorer
vehicle by beings from outer space, and how those beings shot
@own the Russian Cogmonaut.

She stated she fears for her life if it becomes known
she contacted officials, as persons who saw UFOs have died
mysteriously in the past. She stated if Air Force officiais
want to contact her she can be reached by a message to a telephone
number ashe has given an FGI Agent, and she will meet officials
at the Dallas FSI Office only.

OPTIONAL. FORM NO. 10 5010-107-02
MAY 1962 EDITION
~ GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

SS ™AUNITED STATES G: RNMENT >

- ‘Memorartdum

DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 1/23/68

AC, DALLAS (62-1311) (C)

C2
SUBJECT: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

{fh NFORMATION CONCERNING

There is enclosed for the Bureau e Xerox copy of a
letter dated 11/20/67, from Mr. ROBERT G.WEDWARDS, 1736 Northaven
Court, Arlington, Texas 76010, receiv. by the Dallas Office on
1/19/68 in an envelope postmarked at Arlington, Texas, 1/17/68.

subcommittee of tb€\National Investigations Committee on Aerial
Phenomena (NICAP)’ in the Dallas - Fort Worth area, the purpose
of which organization is to conduct scientific investigation

of fnidentified flying objects. “7 ZY/4S

The rig letter reflects the formation of a

This letter has been acknowledged and a copy of same
has been furnished OSI, Tinker AFB for its information.

The acknowledgement to Mr. EDWARDS pointed out to him that
information concerning unidentified flying objects received by
this bureau is, by requirement, currently furnished to the U. s.
Air Force.

/

ra i

(» - Bureau (ene¥L1)

1 - Dallas 3 REGQ- 74
RPG: jeg Wy # Ai O ; AS
i.

‘ a

oT as

Bwerp2 1968

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
‘

20 November 1967

Robert G. Edwards
1736 Northaven Court
Arlington, Texas 76010

Subj: Request for Information on Sightings of Unidentified Aerial
Phenomena in the Dallas-Ft. Worth Area

lL. A subcommittee of the National Investigations Committee on .
Aerial Phenonema, (NICAP), has recently been established in the Dallas-
Ft. Worth area. NICAP ‘is a private, non-profit organization directed by
Major D EU._Keyhoe,..USMC (Ret) from the National Headquarters in
Washington, D. C. The purpose of the organization is to conduct scientific
investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects. It now has 14, 000 associate
members in 50 states. The organization is not interested in the alleged

psychic, occult, mystical, or religious aspects of UFO phenomena.

as NICAP subcommittees, of which there are 30 in the United
States, are composed of qualified individuals in technical or investigative
fields, who are selected and appointed by the Washington office.

3. NICAP is currently working closely with the Colorado Project,
a comprehensive study of UFO's begun in November 1966, by a group of
distinguished scientists at the Univéf sity of Colorado under a U. S. Air
Force contract.

4. The local subcommittee earnestly solicits your support in
reporting to the Committee Chairman any UFO sightings occuring in this
area. It is especially important that the NICAP committee be contacted
immediately in cases of reported UFO sightings where photographs have
been taken or physical evidence remains after the observation.

Robert G. Edwards
Subcommittee Chairman
Texas Unit #2

Phone CR 5-1784

March 19, 1968

Mr. Glenn Evans
Route 4
Waterloo, Illinois 62298

Dear Mr. Evans:

Your letter of March 14th, with enclosure, has
been received.

The investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects
is not and never has been a matter that is within the investiga-
tive jurisdiction of the FBI. I can assure you the photograph
you mentioned does not represent employees of this Bureau.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

John Edgar Hoover
Director

NOTE: Bufiles contain no record of correspondent. The photograph
in question has previously come to the Bureau's attention and is known
to have appeared in a publication;in Europe concerning an Wnidentified
flying objects. A caption,under the photograph alleges two FBI Agents
are leading a person from outer space down the street.

ff
ow

Meh dy

4

MAIL foom Ea TELETYPE UNIT ae

TRUE COPY

Dear Sir F /

My name is Glenn Evans I work for the-United
Saucer Hunter Organization, I am writting this in regard to
a report that the FB.I had captured a saucer occupant this was
published in a flying saucer mag. along with a photo of two
alleged FBI agents and a saucer occupant. is this true? does
the FBI really have a saucer man?

Very truly
/s/

Glenn Evans

eee

MAR 19 1968

en |

March 18, 1968
‘GS 034

Miss Jane Dery
1304 Descanso\Drive

La Canada, California 91011

AIRMAIL

10/

Dear Miss Ferry:
I have received your letter of March 15th.

Although I would like to be of assistance, matters
pertaining to Unidentified Flying Objects are not within the
jurisdiction of the FBI.

iam referring a copy of your communication to
the Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General,
Department of the Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333 for any
help he is in a position to offer you.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

NOTE: Correspondent could not identified in Bufiles.
SAW :mer (3)

y4- MAR 21 1968)

MAIL roomL_] TELETYPE UNIT fi]

TRUE COPY

Dear Sir,

I am a student at Glendale City College in Glendale,
California. This semester I'm doing a research paper on U. F. O.'s.
I was wondering if you could send me any information you might have
regarding the U. F. O. controversy. I would appreciate it very much
if you could send me this information before March 20th as I would

like to get started as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your
time.

Sincerely yours,

Jane Ferry
1304 Descanso Drive
La Canada, Calif. 91011

P.S. If you can't possibly get the information to me by the 20th,
I would appreciate it if it was sent to me as close to that date as
possible.

Mee,

9 MAR 19 1968

Cee re ee

A

March 19, 1969

John Edgar Hoover

United States Department of Justice
‘Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington 25, D.C.

Dear Mr, Hoover:

December 7, 1963, I observed in the sky at Moorestown, New Jersey, an

umusual object and its unusual behavior. On December 8, 1963, just

24 hours later at Elkton, Maryland, the Pan American Aircraft with 73

passengers and a crew of eight perished when this aircraft exploded in
mid air and crashed,

I sent a tape recording of the observation I had made on December 7,
to Mr. Jd. Edgar Hoover and associated this object with the crash of
this plane. Mr. Hoover informed me that the Civil Aeronautics Board
was investigating this disaster and what I had sent to him would be
forwarded to them, the C.A.B.

fob
In the month of March, 1965, the C.A.B., released a report that this'/
accident and cause was due to a lightning strike.

I protested to Senator Case of New Jersey. Senator Case mailed me
the official report by the C.A.B., along with a letter by a Mr. John
Dregge, Director Community and Congressional Relations.

Upon reading the Official C.A.B. report on this accident and also
this letter I have come to the conclusion that neither the C.A.B. or
the writer of this letter know what they are talking about and have
missed the point completely.

I claimed that the object which I seen was laying air mines and
that this aircraft was destroyed by contact with one of these mines.

To substantiate my claim I would refer you to page 8 line 20 to line
2 inclusive of this report File #1-0015. Boeing 707-121 N709PA Pan
American World Airways, Inc., near Elkton, Maryland, December 8,

: eh RECI28 C2 -IbIT4- “UG

WK

A\ {>
| } j

4

25 MAR 27 1969

MAMAN TAMT My Set wr
PPRMCOR SS CORP Fits
¢iviy* : a3

FER

wage 8 line 20 to line 25 inclusive reads as follows:

(Metal splatters on the leading edge of the horizontal stabilizer were
identified by spectrographic analysis as being formed from two
different aluminum alloys. However, these alloys could not be
identified since the chemical composition of the deposits did not
conform to any alloy used in the airplane. The long axis of the
deposits varied from 18 degrees inboard to degrees outboard.)

On July 18, 196), I made another observation, the details of which
I sent to Harvard College Observatory, Cambridge, Mass, (This
sighting was Astronomical not a man made object), a copy of their
return letter is enclosed,

Somehow both of these observations had something in common, the
color. I proceeded to experiment and have arrived at the following
conclusions, after several hundred experiments had taken place.

I have bought books on Astronomy and also books on Flying Saucers.
I know that this object was not astronomical in any way nor was it a

Flying Saucer,

This object was a cleverly design missle camouflaged to appear as a
Meteor or as a Flying Saucer,

However, this missle failed to operate as planned that is how I was
able to see the complete details of the color and also the design,
which I furnished to the government. I also know why this design
was used and also why the colors were arranged as they were. My
experiments proved this.

Thru my experiments I have been able to determine the followings

1. Where they get the tremendous speed from.

2. The wobbling effect they have on occasion,

3. Appearing to osGillate about their vertical axis,
h. Why they make no noise, condensation, or exhaust.
5. Whoshing and wheezing, humming noise on occasions.
6. Different colors they have.

7- Pulsating light.-Luminous appearance,

8. Different forms and shape.

These objects are constantly being sent over both the North and South
Americas by Russia. Anyone seeing these objects are instantly
responsive as to a flying saucer, Subjected to ridicule if this be
mentioned to any one, and/or reported to the authorities,

Russia is @ aware of this fact and has capitalized upon this fact.

They have in this way been able to penetrate our Radar System undetected,
-

To conclude:

The present situation can be blamed upon the various governmental
agencies who in the past have scoffed at and ridiculed people who
have reported these sightings.

Now we are about to pay with 60,000,000 American lives or more.
"Some price",

Our one hope is that Russia and China will go to war against one another,
This then will give us time to created an effective and efficient Radar
system that cannot be penetrated,

I am not a Phophet of Doom, just an American Citizen who is concerned
about the future of America,

Sincerely yo
Arita gam aie
Ay

A copy of this letter is being Ping to [yoly Lox! ng people:

President Nixon

J. Edgar Hoover

Senator Case of New Jersey

Senator Charles H. Percy of Illinois
Melvin Laird, Secretary of Defense

HARVARD COLLEGE OBSERVATORY
CAMBRIDGE 38, MASSACHUSETTS
July 28, 1964

Mr. Edward A. Stewart, Jr.
152 Mount Holly Avenue
Mount Holly, New Jersey

Dear Mr. Stewart:

The object you saw was a bright meteor, sometimes
called a "fireball" or a"bolide". Almost all very
bright meteors are small bodies moving in orbits rather
like the orbits of asteroids, and probably are fragments
of asteroids. The direction of motion of your meteor
is consistent with that sort of orbit. A good many
bright meteors strike the earth each day, but most go
unnoticed. We have received another report of the same
meteor from Wilmington, Delaware.

I am sending your observation to the Moonwatch
Division of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
here in Cambridge, which has a continuing program for
analysis of visual observations of bright meteors.
Since it is very rarely possible for the professional
astronomer to observe these meteors, most of what is
known about them depends on this sort of lucky chance.

Sincerely yours,

Richard B: ‘Southworth

/
“Pp  GRPH-UUO
CA ~f3 AD le aber

ENOLOSURE

May 7, 1969

/
lg J

Mr. Lon M.,/ me
Eastern Representative
~~—National Investigations Committee
on Unidentified Flying Objects
77 Gless Avenue
Belleville, New Jersey 07109

Dear Mr. Cerame:

I have received your letter of April 30th
concerning an article you are preparing on Aerial Phenomena.

Although I would like to be of assistance, matters
pertaining to Unidentified Flying Objects and Aerial Phenomena

are not within the jurisdiction of the FBI. I regret we are unable
to be of help.

Sincerely yours,
J, Edgar Hoover
NOTE: Our files contain no information identifiable with correspondent,

JCF :pls, (5)

¥
|
x9
| \

AY \ ——WAILED 10
MAY '2- 1969

COMN-FBI

/ 4 j, f
, Le
[%

3 yf fp
iy d

» &

National Investigations Committee
ON UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
LON M. CERAME - EASTERN REPRESENTATIVE

77 Gless Avenue
Belleville, N. J. 07109 Phone: 759-4036

April 30, 1969

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington, D.C. 20535

Attention: Director
Sir:

I am doing an article for an Air Force magazine concerning Aerial
Phenomenon and other so-called flying objects.

/

To help me out, I would like to know if the Bureau has ever received
any such reports concerning the sightings or investigations of such
objects. If so, would it be possible to send me some reports for use
in my article.

Very truly yours,

Lon M. Cerame

Eastern Rep. NICOUFO

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106
MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Gale \\

‘%

7h DATE: 5/16/69

FROM : W. V. Clevelan

SUBJECT: FORREST E7\ WOOD
4267 E. Compton Boulevard
Compton, California
Telephone No. 635-6372
INFORMATION CONCERNING

Mr. Wood telephonically contacted the Bureau at

12:50 a.m. 5/16/69 and spoke with SA Stephen F. McInerney,
Special Investigative Division.

at Lee

“Wood stated he is a former CIA Agent and wanted
.to report to the Director that recently he has been seeing

Oflyin /objects. He requested that the Director call him on
69 concerning this matter. He was advised that

Mr. Hoover would be unavailable.

From Wood's tone of voice it appeared he was
intoxicated. He advised. that he was recently discharged
as a patient from the psycho ward of a Veteran's hospital. |
Information in Bureau indices (66-3182-8679) .
indicates individual possibly identical with captioned
subject called Bureau 5/1/69, at which time he rambled
about numerous subjects and his speech indicated he had
been drinking. At that time no record identifiable with
Wood was located in Bureau files.

ACTION: For information. A check is being made with CIA
to determine if they have a former agent identical with Wood.*
%
at C 4 { Cy ( _
Miss Holmes we pit ae 4 7ade
Mr. DeLoach * Liaison Agent Papich caused complete

Mr. Bishop search of CIA indices regarding Wood
Mr. Gale with negative results. WVC:pnh

Mr. Cleveland 1919
Mr. McInerney / ap -108 10 MAY |1

SFM: jb,
(7)

69

.
f

 y! MAy 26 1969

May 21, 1969

i 473

Mr. Larry hens
EX-100 Route 12, box 206
Del City, Oklahoma 73115

Dear Mr. Stephens:
Mr. Hoover read your letter received on May 19th.

He asked that I advise you that the FBI has no infor-
mation it can send to you regarding the rumors you have heard. He
also asked that I furnish you the enclosed publications concerning
our organization.

A copy of your communication is being forwarded to
the Office of Special Investigations, Department of the Air Force,
Washington, D. C., to which its contents may be of interest.

Sincerely yours,

f
7-7
id

Helen W. Gandy
Secretary

MAY 2 1 1969

Enclosures (2)
Know Your FBI
99 facts about the FBI yt

‘2

S7

1 - Oklahoma City - Enclosure
Attention SAC: Correspondent is not identifiable in Bufiles.

NOTE: A copy of correspondent's letter is being furnished to the Office
of Special Investigations, Department of the Air Force, by form.

DCL:llk (4) ere

fe apf
} Grn )

|

a

TRUE COPY

May 14, 1969 Rt. 12 Box 206
Del City, Okla. 73115

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Penn. Ave. & 9th. NW.
Wash., D.C. 19806

Dear Sirs;

There currently are rumors over the grapevine and
in print that suggest men with oriental features wearing dark clothes go
around terrorizing people who have had close-up views of UFO's.
It is also rumored these creatures have impersonated armed forces officers
and FBI investigators. They are supposed to ride around in black or dark
automobiles that either have old licence tags or none at all. Several are
reported to have attemped to run down witnesses of UFO sightings, made
disturbingyalmost macabre phone calls, silenced several investigators who
were supposed to have learned some dark secret about extraterrestial craft
or mission plans and opened mail, tapped telephones and even taken pictures
of several homes where UFO witnesses lived. in J

Can you give me any information on such rumors? Of can you
refer me to a source whose facilities can answer my questions?

this information will help settle some disturbing questions
the readers of my articles. Personally I am not sure at all whether I can
fully accept these rumours as facts. I need more information.

Any information you supply can ease the worries of people
who feel that the objects unknown they see in the sky may portend the visit
of a mysterious visitor.

. Yours Truly,
ge” i ¥ loqy ( ine |
/s/ Mr. Larry“Stephers=" TY />

we 0
PE By

P.S. If there are any pamphets covering the FETs 'RGActions you feel I
will need, please send them along.

ee

October 13, 1969

1p 4 1S

Mr. Paul Brassington
UFO Astronomer Club
94 Dreyer Drive

Ajax, Ontario, Canada

Dear Paul: gh

The letter from you, : Stephen Smith and Gary
argreaves was received on October 8th.

5 ee
22
/

The investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects is not
and never has been a matter that is within the investigative jurisdiction

of the FBI. I can assure you the photograph you mentioned does not
represent employees of this Bureau.

Enclosed is some material relating to the work of this
Bureau which I hope will be of interest to you.

Sincerely yours,
MAILED 4 Hip
OCT 13 1969 - Edgar Hoover

COMM-FBI

Enclosures (6)
3 copies of The Story of the FBI
3 copies of 99 Facts About the FBI

NOTE: Correspondents are not identifiable in Bufiles. The photograph in
question has previously come to the Bureau's attention and is known to have
appeared in a publication in Europe concerning unidentified flying objects.

A caption under the photograph alleges two FBI Agents are leading a person
from outer space down the street.

i
DcLieat (3) son , fff | bo

MAIL ROOM [2 TELETYPE UNIT fa

Urive

yer

a
i]

Ir

nada

7.

LUD

Ajax ontario

‘
vu

AStronomer

UrO

aw
®)

-

UFO Astronomer
yy Dreyer Drive
Ajax,Ontario.
Canada.

Dear Sirs,

() Our club is very interested in th
study of Unidentified Flying Objects. We wer
studying a magazine called U"0'S A Pictorigq
and on one of the pagesthere was a picture
of a supposedly man from outer space who was
being held by two men.Above the nicture it
Stated the the two men were FBi agents who
fad captured this man and were walking down b
an American street.It had also stated that
the picture had first been published in an
MAMARZAAKGe rman newspaper.There was no other
additional information.We would appreciate it
if you would send us a letter telling us whee
-ther this is true or untrue.Could you please
send us the information,

Ne have three members in our club they
are Steve Smith,13,GaryHHargreaves,i2,and
Paul pDrassS1lnZvudii,gi3e

oicereiy Yours tne
members of the UFO
Astronomers,

~

: GS
im

Psderal Bureau Of Investisktion

Wasntnston D

Wa

a

June 20, 1972

.

x.
THE PENTAGON
Washington, D.C.

Dear Sirs:

4

In approximately seven months or.January, 1972, certain copies of top-secret
documents shall be sent to the New York Times as well as two other newspapers.
These documents are related to,and will be an ostentation of t involvement of the
pentagon in the controversial ‘Unidentified Flying Objects" or "Flying Saucer"
subject. It will show that not only the U.S. Air Force was involved in UFO research
but the other military branches as well.

Analysis and the actual conclusions of the classic UFO cases shall be revealed.
This shall be accomplished by zeroxed documents and photographs that General
Wolfe had reviewed when he was head of the Army's UFO support program in the
Pentagon during the Eisenhower years.

Sorry, but it is coneluded here that this is the best course to take because

we feel that the secret UFO investigations are parallel in nature to the Times-
Pentagon Vietnam controversy. If we are wrong in taking this action, time will tell

p2 AUG

————

bp fis, ~ NO KN COMTEPYLATED
7/23/71 Lyf) (2

BlAuco 971.

»

February 23, 1972

Miss Mary Beth Martine
Box 463, Oak Street
Westmoreland City, Pennsylvania 15692

Dear Miss Martine:

I regret that I am unable to comment a you requested
in your letter of February 15th. The investigation of Unidentified _
Flying Objects is not and never has been a matter that is within the
investigative jurisdiction of the FBI.

Sincerely yours,

J, Edgar Hoover

John Edgar Hoover
Director

NOTE: Bufiles reflect no record of correspondent.

fr, Bishop ——_____
Mr. Miller, B.S, —_ -
. Casper — ae
». Conrad 8
: Dalbey — " FC
. Cleveland —_ ) 7
. Ponder __
Bates

Waikart — / fis
Walters —-—__ “6 ” Vi \be £)
Soyate BJ tA & oi G.

iss Gandy MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT |__|

TRUE COPY

Box 463 Oak Street
Westmoreland City, Pa.
15692

February 15, 1972

Dear Mr. Hoover,

I would please like your opinion on U. F.O's. whether or
not you think they exist or not.

Sincerely,

Mary Beth Martine

a |
bey,

/
/
/

R i y,
rruEcopy “564

ee cee meee

i. 7 °

UNITED STAT GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 3/20/73

f

SAN ANTONIO (62-0)

DAVE T. OZANNE
INFORMATION CONCERNING

a
—

00: SAN ANTONIO C—~ | I) Di

Enclosed for the Bureau are four copies of an
LHM reflecting information provided by Sgt. PAUL STIGLIANO,
United States Air Force, Recruiting Depot, Waco, Texas
concerning the subject. One copy of LHM is also being
furnished to Dallas.

This information is being furnished to the Bureau
for proper dassemination to the military due to the partic-
ular request made by the subject concerning UFO (unidentifiet&
flying obgects).

Interview of Sgt. STIGLIANO was conducted by SA
RICHARD T. JESINGER of the FBI in Waco, Texas on 3/9/73.

19-4399UV_407

———e ee

22 mar 241973

Bureau (Enel. 4)”

Dallas (Enel. 1) P
1 - San Antonio Wy eee Yrnrttrns
RTJ/jak , fe goon / — -
(4) [o& LOT hee Aen
pretactak frgeres C Leck Gort “9
“ i 0

gus RAE 73-
1973

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

b

5010-108-02

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.

vge STATES DEPARTMENT or@srice

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Antonio, Texas

March 20, 1973

DAVE T. OZANNE

On March 9, 1973, Sergeant Paul Stigliano, United
States Air Force, Recruiting Office, Professional Building,
Waco, Texas, advised that a man identifying himself as Dave
T. Ozanne contacted the night-shift supervisor at the Waco
Tribune Newspaper, and inquired regarding any information
the newspaper could be able to furnish him concerning any
unidentified flying objects observed in the Waco, Texas area.
Ozanne had identified himself as a Captain in the United States
Air Force. Ozanne was described as having on an Air Force
uniform with a chaplain’ s badge on the uniform. Ozanne also
had in his possession at the time a folder marked Top Secret
which contained pictures of various military installations.
No specific information concerning these photos could be
provided by Sergeant Stigliano.

Sergeant Stigliano stated that when Ozanne was
informed that they could provide no information to him he
left his card which contained his name and the following
information:

| JE ls / Cc

Address: 3911 Bowser, Apart ment 209,

por Dallas, Texas

Phone: 526-5908

Sergeant Stigliano advised that the individual did
not act in any strange manner, and did not attempt to obtain
anything other than information from the newspaper. Sergeant
Stigliano advised that this information was being furnished
to the proper authorities only for information purposes as
they do not suspect any unlawful activity.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and
is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Ug STATES DEPARTMENT or Qsrce

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Antonio, Texas

March 20, 1973

DAVE T. OZANNE

On March 9, 1973, Sergeant Paul Stigliano, United
States Air Force, Recruiting Office, Professional Building,
Waco, Texas, advised that a man identifying himself as Dave
T. Ozanne contacted the night-shift supervisor at the Waco
Tribune Newspaper, and inquired regarding any information
the newspaper could be able to furnish him concerning any
unidentified flying objects observed in the Waco, Texas area.
Ozanne had identified himself as a Captain in the United States
Air Force. Ozanne was described as having on an Air Force
uniform with a chaplain's badge on the uniform. Ozanne also
had in his possession at the time a folder marked Top Secret
which contained pictures of various military installations.
No specific information concerning these photos could be
provided by Sergeant Stigliano.

Sergeant Stigliano stated that when Ozanne was
informed that they could provide no information to him he
left his card which contained his name and the following
information:

Address: 3911 Bowser, Apartment 209,
pot Dallas, Texas
Phone: 526-5908

Sergeant Stigliano advised that the individual did
not act in any strange manner, and did not attempt to obtain
anything other than information from the newspaper. Sergeant
Stigliano advised that this information was being furnished
to the proper authorities only for information purposes as
they do not suspect any unlawful activity.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and
is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ug STATES DEPARTMENT or Qstice

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Antonio, Texas

March 20, 1973

DAVE T. OZANNE

On March 9, 1973, Sergeant Paul Stigliano, United
States Air Force, Recruiting Office, Professional Building,
Waco, Texas, advised that a man identifying himself as Dave
T. Ozanne contacted the night-shift supervisor at the Waco
Tribune Newspaper, and inquired regarding any information
the newspaper could be able to furnish him concerning any
unidentified flying objects observed in the Waco, Texas area.
Ozanne had identified himself as a Captain in the United States
Air Force. Ozanne was described as having on an Air Force
uniform with a chaplain's badge on the uniform. Ozanne also
had in his possession at the time a folder marked Top Secret
which contained pictures of various military installations.
No specific information concerning these photos could be
provided by Sergeant Stigliano.

Sergeant Stigliano stated that when Ozanne was
informed that they could provide no information to him he
left his card which contained his name and the following
information:

Address: 3911 Bowser, Apartment 209,
Dallas, Texas
Phone: 526-5908

Sergeant Stigliano advised that the individual did
not act in any strange manner, and did not attempt to obtain
anything other than information from the newspaper. Sergeant
Stigliano advised that this information was being furnished
to the proper authorities only for information purposes as
they do not suspect any unlawful activity.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and
is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

October 25, 1973

al
;

East Francis Avenue
a Habra, California 90631

Dear Mr. Fraide:
In reply to your letter received on October 23rd,
the investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects is not and

never has been a matter that is within the investigative

jurisdiction of the FBI. Therefore, I cannot comment as you

suggested. I regret that I am unable to be of assistance in
this instance.

1cerely yours,

C. M. Kelley

Clarence M,. Kelley
Director

NOTE: Correspondent is not identifiable in Bufiles.

jkb:cmc (3)

j FAN ED
Assoc. Dir. | MAILED 4

Asst. Dir.: . On’ 5
Comp. Syst. - i
Ext. Affairs FBI
Files & Com. __ . 4

Gen. Inv.

ident, Ss
Inspection —
Intell. __
Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

taining | ‘ ,
Legal Coun. 56' 0 a FANE. Fé 4 4 3 A -
ephone R a “ 7 eo _ bot
Aware vg POTS, crervee UNITC] ~~ SVT

Director Sec’y —__— MAIL ROOM J

April 15, 1974
1 -—- Mr. Mintz

4 ee
ee Wo | oR aS Wy Proven | {

Assoc. Dir. __
Dep. AD Adm. _
ep. AD Inv. __
it. Dir.:
imin.
dmp. Syst. __
xt. Affairs —
tiles & Com, __
gen. Inv.
dent.
Inspection
Intell.
soho
Plon. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.

‘Training

Apartment. 2].
2904 South 13th Road
Arlington, Virginia

Dear Mr. Bryant:
Your letter was received on April 3rd.

In response to your request for information from
FBI files regarding your activities in the unidentified
flying objects research field, please be advised that we
have no such information in our files except copies of prior
correspondence with you and a record of your September. 17,
1963, interview. Therefore, we have no documents to send
to you and cannot further comply with your request.

Sincerely yours,

G, M. Kelley
Clarence M. Kelley
Director

1 - Norfolk - Enclosure

Attention: Special Agent Steve Boyle.
1 - Bufile 62-115530 (FOI-REPLIES
NOTE: Bufiles reflect prior correspondence with Bryant regard-
ing UFO's of which copies have been made and are being furnished
to him. Data pertaining to the interview is contained in
an incoming airtel from Norfolk dated 9/24/63. SA Steve Boyle
of the Norfolk Office was contacted and apparently the interview
of Bryant in 1963 was initiated because of voluminous correspon-
dence which Bryant had sent to Federal and military as well as
law enforcement agencies.

in (5) MAILED 20
¥ APR151974

Ml,

2904 South 13th Road - Apt 2
Arlington, Virginia 22204
March 31, 1974

Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington, D. C.

fr

Dear Sir: Fs /

On September 17, 1963, Mr. John S. Castles, an FBI agent of the Newport
News, Va. contingent, visited me at my place of employment (Ft. Eustis, Va.)

to interview me as to my interest in the subject of unidentified flying

objects (UFO's). I understand that Mr. Castles prepared a formal report of
that interview.

Since President Nixon recently has expressed his intention to assure that
the privacy and civil liberties of individual citizens receive the protection
they deserve under our form of government, it is in the spirit of that assurance

that I respectfully request that you send me a copy of Mr. Castles' report along

with a copy of all other documents in your files pertaining to my activities in

the UFO-research field. arc-16 (, - ¥ IA ' Wi,
EX-11] Yours sincerely, ee

Sor MA avi i

Larry W. Bryant

Copy furnished to: Director, Washington, D. C. Office, American Civil Liberties Unien

4,22 (Rev. 6-26-73)
ae i Federal Bureau of Investigation

} he ws Records Section “ “

‘

[=] Name Searching Unit - Room 6527
peed Service Unit - Room 6524
[___] Forward to File Review | -
pet Attention a gE anal
[ A+Reforn to. Y209 / /
Supervisor Room Ext.

Type of References Requested:
{ tegular Request (Analytical Search)
stay References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)
1 Subversive References Only
ae Nonsubversive References Only
=

l } Main ______. References Only

Ukestricted to Locality of © 4h.
Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

[] Buildup ____| Variations
LAs Kcvant

Subject - =. s
Birthdate & Place — a _ =e
Address —_

Localities

/ Searcher-7 i
Go i re / pet

Date & — Initials —

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. _

Memorandum 1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall Dee AD nw. —

Admin.
Comp. Syst. }

ies Ext. Affairs a
‘Mr. W. R. Wannall wi” DATE: 8/22/74 Files & Com. _|

Gen. inv. __t

reas 3 f
: Le Je Smith Intel Vt wscifs “
w

Ponts Eval.
Spec. Inv.

SUBJECT: MILITARY INQUIRY REGARDIN IDENTIFIED Training
OBJECT THAT FELL FROM S MILWAUKEE, sa BT

Telephone Rm. __

WISCONSIN 8/21/74; , yattior Soy

INFORMATION CONCERNING - ue
Aether —~

At 12:07 a.m., 8/22/74, Security Patrol Clerk (SPC)
Charles F. Halty, Intelligence Division received a call via
Command Center telephone from a Major Horn, NMCC (National
Military Command Center). Major Horn asked for any informa-
tion the FBI might have concerning a report that an unidentifie
object which fell from the sky at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, had
been recovered by local police and turned over to the Milwau
Office of the FBI.

No information available at Intelligence Divisio

Night Duty Supervisor Harry E. Morris, Jr., called SPC
Koller, Milwaukee Office, who advised an unidentified objec
had been recovered by Milwaukee police at about 5:55 p.m.,
8/21/74, but that it was still in possession of police. He

| said a Captain Wills of the Milwaukee Police Department had

| called the Milwaukee FBI Office to report the recovery. Very

| little was known about the object which was described as about
13 x 8 x 5 inches, metallic in substance and color, jagged on
one side and had an "internal heat source." Police notified
military locally.

Above information was relayed to Major Horn with
suggestion hemight like to contact Captain Wills, Milwaukee
Police Department,

This matter received United Press Internatio j/

Coverage on morning of 8/22/74.

ACTION: REC- 101

\ 4?
For information, Ny Diz qD>

aE i
HEM; ldf
(2)

G0 AUG 29 i974.

es DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORC
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20330

OBFICE OF THE SECRETARY

Dear Mr. Malmfeldt:

This office recently received a public inquiry regarding
UFOs, referred to us from the Bu eau. As the inclosed fact
sheet indicates, the Ai Project Blue Book" investi-
gation of UFOs was terminated on cember 17, 1969, and all
related documentation was turned o to the National Archives
and Records Service. :

The inquirer referred to us has been apprised of these
events. Hopefully, the inclosed fact sheet will be of help
in responding to any future inguiries on this subject.

Sincerely,

a ee eee

H. A. McCLANAHAN, Lt Col, USAF
Chief, Civil Branch

Community Relations Division
Office of Information

Attachment

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. Malmfeldt, Room 7825
Washington, D. C. 20535

REC-26

“
a.

There are a number of universities and professional
scientific organizations such as the American Association for
the Advancement of Science, which have considered UFO
phenomena during periodic meetings and seminars. In addition,
a list of private organizations interested in aerial phenomena
may be found in Gale's Encyclopedia of Associations (Edition 8,
Vol I, pp. 432-3). Such timely review of the situation by
private groups insures that sound evidence will not be over-
looked by the scientific community.

2 Atchs
1. Sighting Summary
2. UFO-related Materials

a.

UFO FACT SHEET

On December 17, 1969 the Secretary of the Air Force
announced the termination of Project Blue Book, the Air Force
program for the investigation of UFOs.

The decision to discontinue UFO investigations was based
on an evaluation of a report prepared by the University of
Colorado entitled, "Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying
Objects;" a review of the University of Colorado's report by
the National Academy of Sciences; past UFO studies; and Air
Force experience investigating UFO reports during the past
two decades.

As a result of these investigations and studies, and
experience gained from investigating UFO reports since 1948,
the conclusions of Project Blue Book are: (1) no UFO reported,
investigated, and evaluated by the Air Force has ever given
any indication of threat to our national security; (2) there
has been no evidence submitted to or discovered by the Air
Force that sightings categorized as "unidentified" represent
technological developments or principles beyond the range of
present day scientific knowledge; and (3) there has been no
evidence indicating that sightings categorized as "unidentified"
are extraterrestrial vehicles.

With the termination of Project Blue Book, the Air Force
regulation establishing and controlling the program for invest-
igating and analyzing UFOs was rescinded. All documentation
regarding the former Blue Book investigation has been per-
manently transferred to the Modern Military Branch, National
Archives and Records Service, 8th and Pennsylvania Avenue,
Washington, D.C. 20408, and is available for public review
and analysis.

Attached for your information is the Project Blue Book
sighting summary for the period 1947-1969. Also included is
a listing of UFO-related materials currently available.

Since the termination of Project Blue Book, no evidence
has been presented to indicate that further investigation of
UFOs by the Air Force is warranted. In view of the consider-
able Air Force commitment of resources in the past, and the
extreme pressure on Air Force funds at this time, there is
no likelihood of renewed Air Force involvement in this area.

dé:

TOTAL UFO SIGHTINGS, 1947 - 1969

TOTAL SIGHTINGS UNIDENTIFIED

122
156
186
210
169
1,501
509
487
545
670
1,006
627
390
357
591
474
399
562
887
i, ii12
937
375
146

12,618

‘a b

UFO MATERIALS

Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying Objects. Study
conducted by the University of Colorado under contract
F44620-76-C-0035. Three volumes, 1,465 p. 68 plates.
Photoduplicated hard copies of the official report may
be ordered for $6 per volume, $18 the set of three,

as AD 680:975, AD 680:976, and AD 680:977, from the
National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department
of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22151.

Review of University of Colorado Report on Unidentified
Flying Objects: Review of report by a panel of the National
Academy of Sciences... National Academy of Sciences,

1969, 6p. Photoduplicated hard copies may be ordered for

$3 as AD 688:541 from the National Technical Information
Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22151.

1 - Mr. Cochran

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT June 15, 1977

4 Jo.

Mr. Stanley Schneider

Assistant to the Director

Office of Science and Technology Policy
Executive Office of the President
Washington, D. C. 20500

Dear Mr. Schneider:

Pursuant to our conversation today, there is
enclosed a copy of the FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin
for the month of February, 1975. Beginning on page
16 there is an article covering the handling of UFO
sightings which may be of interest to you in connection
with your current inquiry.

If there is any way we may be of additional He
service to you, please do not hesitate to let me 4
know.

Sincerely yours,
MAILED 3

Jay Coc & m7 ¢ 3 26 7* 4 >)
Assistant Director FBI te
Technical Services Division

Enclosure

NOTE: Schneider originally called 6/14/77, see memo that date
captioned White House Inquiry re UFO as to Bureau procedures
for handling information received re UFO. He was advised in
absence of jurisdiction no inquiries are conducted and information

furnished to U. S. Air Force.
APPROVED: Adm. Serv.___—_ Legal Coun.
Crim. Inv. Plan. & Insp.——_——

Director. Fin. & Pers.____—*Rec. Mgnt. ———

Public Affe, OFf 6 (3 eS po ee
Telephone Rm. — ff Dep. m. a an. ae
Director’ s Sec'y — MAtRboM! J Aécevype unit © Dep. AD Inv. Laboratory___—_ Training ao

a Public Affs. Off_———

CT FBI/DOJ

a5. inva————_

och. Servs.——__—

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
JULY 1973 EDITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6 Assoc. Dir,

UNITED STATES GOV. .MENT nee REA .
ep. invy =
Asst. Dir:

‘/ Memorandum tn Sr

Crim, Inv.

Fin, & Pers,
> Ident: _>

MR. MC DERMOTT DATE: 6/14/77 tell.
Laboratgry
Legal Coun.

—- ae
> vi Pilon. & Insp. —
FROM : J. cOduRAN, JR. ‘ Rec. Mgnt. f

Spec. Inv, —__
) 4 Tech. Servs, =

* 2

Training

SUBJECT: “WHITE HOUSE INQUIRY RE ‘ . Public Affs. Off,
elephone om

PURI DENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS (UFO) Director's Sec'y —

Stanley Schneider of the Office of Science and
Technology, White House, telephonically contacted me today to
inguire as to the Bureau's procedure for handling information
received from the public or otherwise, relating to sightings
of UFOs. He advised that Jody Powell of the President's staff
has raised the question as to whether or not there is any
coordination within the Executive Branch relating to information
concerning this subject. He stated that the U.S. Air Force had
closed their investigation of these matters several years ago
and currently does nothing but refer such information to
appropriate local authorities.

, I advised him that as far as the FBI is concerned
there appears to be no conceivable jurisdiction for us to eongac t
O

any inquiries upon receipt of information relating to a UF

sighting and, in the absence of some investigative jurisdiction

based upon the information furnished, that information would be

referred to the Department of the Air Force without any action
\being taken by the Bureau.

He thanked me for the information and stated that if
i any further contact was necessary he would call back.

None. For information.

———

somes ey

APPROVED: Adm. Servt_._—Ss— Legal Coun
frim, inv. Plan, & Insp.___—

Director, = Fin. & Pers Rec. Ment.___
2 a Oe SD | a aphena ars
» AD Ad intel... =‘ Fest, ‘Serve. ——

a: - Mr. Adams ‘ Dep, AD Inv._ A. Laboratory Training __*
1 - Each Assistant Director Public Affs. Off.___
1 - Mr. Boynton

ieee 4 FBI/DOJ