=S252
IRECTOR, FBI URGENT /
BaP?
FLYING SAUCERS, SAVANNAH RIVER PLANT, AEC. SECURITY OFFICE OF AEC
ADVISED THIS DATE. THAT TWO EMPLOYEES OF THE E. I. DU PONT COMPANY
SAW A BLUE LIGHT WITH AN ORANGE FRINGE SHAPED LIKE A SAUCER FLY-OVER
THE FOUR HUNDRED AREA OF THE SAVANNAH RIVER PLANT AT APPROXIMATELY
NINE THIRTY PM AUGUST EIGHT, FIFTYTWO. OBJECT FLYING AT A HIGH RATE

OF SPEED AND TRAVELING IN A NORTHEASTERN 3 le ge
RECORDED - 8

Sew a

7 AUG 14 1982
SCHLENKER

7-48 PM OK FBI WA NRB

~

August 12, 1952

Mrs. Ora AY Tygrett
c/o Lou Merlaw Farm
Rural Route No. 1

New Palestine, Indiana

Dear Mrs. Tygrett:
Your letter dated July 31, 1952, addressed to the
War Department, c/o Federal Bureau of Investigation, has been

received.

Your interest in furnishing your observation in
this regard is appreciated.

In view of the contents of your communication
which also appear to be of interest to the Department of
the Air Force, I have taken the liberty of furnishing
that Agency @ copy of your letter.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

Toleon.

Hichols

Belmont.

Clegg,

Glavin.
Harbo
Rosen,

Tracy
Laugh te
Rohr,

Tele. Hn.

Holloman.

August 13, 1952

Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Ce

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject: FLYING DISKS

There is attached a Photostat of a self
explanatory letter dated August 5, 1952, at
Pontiac, Michigan, received by this Bureau from
Mr. W. He Jennings, 3096 Hazelmary, Zone 17, Pontiac,
Michigan, relating to the captioned matter.

Mr. Jennings’ letter has been acknowledged
and he has been informed that a copy of his letter
has been furnished to your office for appropriate
attention. No further action is contemplated in this
matter by this Bureau.

RECORDED - ii FOF
KX . 5 AUG 15,1952

There is no record identifiable wi th Jennings
in the files of the Bureau

EHMske 5

August 13, 1952

Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Atr force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Ce

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
_federal Bureau of Investigation

Sudjeet: FLYING DISKS

There is attached a copy of a self
explanatory letter dated July 31, 1952, received
by this Bureau from Mr. Benedicto Romero, 1647
Park Avenue, New York City, relating to the
capttoned matter.

Mr. Romero's letter has been acknowledged /
and he has been informed that a copy of his letter
has been furnished to your oj fice for appropriate
attention. WNo further action is contenplated in
this matter by this Bureau.
Zab

as Fal . i im a net )
Bureau files fail .to reflect,anyri norma tion
that can be identified with Mr. Romero. <. oe

E HM: ke

Holloman

August H, 1952

Director of Spectal Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Ce

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject: FLYING DISKS

There ts attached a copy of a self-
ezplanatory letter dated August 1, 1952, received
by this Bureau from Mrs. Fred Haufe, 606 Walnut
Avenue, Fairmont, West Virginia, relating to
the captioned matter.

Mrs. Haufe's letter has been acknowledged
and she has been informed that a copy of her letter
has been furnished to your office for appropriate
attention. No further action its contemplated in

this matter by this Bureau. WY
a /- B07
RECOR 1G 15

~ bet
AU Av

hd

Bureau files fail to reflect any -info
that can be tdenti fied. with Mrs. Haufe.

531 AUG 261959

Tele. Am,

SERVICE UNIT é

SEARCH yoo ba
Supervisor Jagedd Pte

4

st

et
Subj p27 4 +O

—____Exact Spelling
+All References
Subversive Ref.
—__Main File
—___Restricted to Locality of

FILE NUMBER SERIALS

Initialed

«~~ STANDARD FORM NO, 64 +

Office Memorandum e UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

gi ? MR. R. T. HABBO ff ‘G DATE: August 8, 1952 _

FROM : 63 F, DOWNING: cy

N
\

SUBJECT: ANONYMOUS COMMUNICATION WRITTEN
aden LANGUAGE RECEIVED BY
"CINCINNATI ENQUIRER" PERTAINING
TO "FLYING SAUCERS"
SECURITY MATTER = X

Reference is made to a letter from the Cincinnati Office dated_,
August 6, °1952, submitting an anonymous letter in German concerning BS
so-called "Flying Saucers."_

Attached are 7 copies of a translation of this German material Wane AW
prepared in the Cryptanalysis-Translation Section.

No reply has been made by us to the August 6, 1952, letter from
Cincinnati.

RECOMMENDATION:

That the Domestic Intelligence Division review the Cincinnati
submission and accompanying Bureau translation, for appropriate handling,
noting particularly a suggestion in the last paragraph of the Cincinnati
letter to consider making this information available to other Governmental
Agencies. ct - 0!

ELH
62-8389), i Bie

TWN: jen | ’ eo
\W Attachment -) 1 ee |

58 SEP 2 “1952 ie

TRANSLATION PROM GERMAN

tee ee

Fiying Saucer,
a weapon tested in 19h, which is probably now being produced in
series, and at this time causes a great stir, is a V-weapon which
has @ round body similar to a disk having a diameter of about
48=50 me On the outer ring it has about 5-50 automatic circular
nogzles which after the ignition of the disk circulate around a
piexiglass sphere in the center in which the measuring and controlling
devices for long-distance steering are located. In the sphere is still
sufficient space for atom bombs. ‘These weapons are in hussian hands
and can have an effective range of 30-35,000 km. ‘The constructor of
Veweapons RIEDEL in Germany stated that it concerns a typical V-weapon
on which he had worked himself. [I am sure that the truth is better
than a panic among ignorant people.

Hs. SCH.

2470 NOV 19 1804

Director, FBI
SAC, San Diego (100-3565)

BORDERLAND SCIENCES , RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
San Diegoy California;

MEAD LAYNE — Directors MAX FREEDOM LONG — Director

Reference is made to San Diego letter dated 8-5-52 concerning the
captioned matter.

For the additional information of the Bureau, there is being trans-
mitted herewith one copy each of the following which were made
available to me by FRANCIS OHM, who is a member of the captioned

organizations

le Mimeographed letter consisting of four
pages addressed to His Excellency, The
President of the United States.

Mimeographed announcement consisting of

three pages entitled "For Information of
the Public — and the Sake of the Record —

A Synopsis of Important Data".

Enclosure (2)
JFS 8 jec

NOT FECORDED
M7SEP 3B 1952

oO SEP 10 1952

_ARIGINAL FILED tN

August 22, 1952

Gl. € 35 é 7
RECORDED - 88 4s William.#o / fme ye O
nee Route 3

c

Ef) -

Jackson, Minnesota

88

Dear Mr. Hojfmeyer:

Your letter postmarked August 15, 1952,
together with enclosure, has been received, and I
want to thank you for bringing this matter to my
attention.

Inasmuch ag the contents of your communit«~
cation do not reflect any violation within the
jurisdiction of this Bureau, I am unable to comply
with your request.

t am taking the liberty of forwarding a
copy of your letter and your original enclosure to
the Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector
General, Department of the Air Force, The Pentagon,
Washington 25, Ds. C., since these matters may be of
interest to that agency.

Sineerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

Copy of incoming. to Dept..of Air Force.

NOTE: In: view of correspondens 's) Raijidpeaibe to a."steady white
light" circling their farm, his letter wrrer is being referred
to the U.S.4Air Force. brantvh: thtenested,in matters of this type.
Correspondent's enclosure was q& fample of what appeared to be
shredded thin strips of tine-fotd-.

LH:mnfins

*

TRUE COPY

Jackson Minn
Aug 2, 1952

J. Edgar Hoover
Federal bureau of Investigation.
Washington, D. Ce

Dear Mr Hoovers

I don't know if you analyze articles so will
send you a sample of (something that looks like tinsel)
because my uncle found it in a pasture in a round pile,
underneath of it, tt looks as tho the clover was burned,
& there are 3 similar patches which are burned ina
triangle form. Last Sunday Morning the Neighbors Wife
got up to get a drink of water & happned to see a steady
white Light circling their farm, but didn't pay any
attention to itt. Than Sunday morn. when my uncle went
to get the cows, he saw this stuff shining in the Sun
light. It couldn't of been dropped out of a plane as it
was loose & not in a container & the nearest road is
about a # mile from the pasture & now we are wondering
what it is. So would like to have you analyze it & let
me know.

Sincerely yours,

/s/ Wm Hof fmeyer

RECORDED - 126
ANDEXED -

ff

August 20, 1952
126

Mr. John E. Lang
1413 South Vermont
Los Angeles 6, California

Dear Mr. Lang:

Your letter of August 12, 1952, has been recetuved
and I want you to know that I appreciate the interest
prompting you to bring your observations to my attention.

Inasmuch as the matter to which you refer is of
interest to the United States Air Force authorities, I am
taking the liberty of making a copy of your connunication
avatlable to The Honorable, The Secretary of the Air Force,
The Pentagon, Washington 25, De. Ce

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

LHsgor:bkh

71 SEP

ector, FBI August 5, 1952
SAC, San Diego

BORDERLAND SCIENCES, RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
San Diego, Californias MEAD LAYNE, Director};
MAX FREEDOM LONG, Director

In view of the current hysteria concerning the
so-called “flying saucers", I thought that the Bureau
might be interested in the following information concern=
ing the captioned organization.

I am transmitting herewith certain literature con-
cerning the captioned organization which was furnished to
me by FRANCIS OHM, who operates the Businessmens Assurance
Company in San Diego and who has his office in the same
building housing the FBI office,

It is of interest to note that on Friday, August } Sie

1952, at approximately 12:00‘noon, FRANCIS OHM asked to se
me urgently, which I did. As a member of the captioned
organization, he advised me that they were having a meeti
at 1:00 PM the same day, inasmuch as they had been advised,
that they had some very important information to discuss. 77)
He went on to relate that through the means utilized by hig
organization (which the enclosed literature will reflect Ri oi
borders on the occult), they were able to prognosticate
well in advance the recent earthquake which occurred in
Tehachapi, California. He advised that they have also
been able to obtain the following informations

1. That a very severe tidal wave will hit the
Pacific Ocean sometime in the not too remote future and
that most of the Japanese Islands will be washed away
end disappear.

2. That all fishes with scales in Japanese
waters will soon leave these waters for other destina-
tions, in view of the oncoming tidal wave.

3. That this tidal wave will wash away the
Hawaiian Islands.

lh. Theat the West Coast of the United States will
likewise be affected by this tidal wave.

5. That they prognosticated the appearance of
a new island in the Pacific which was published in the
newspapers within the past week.
JFStha es dan
? NOT RECORDED
‘Fae, 45 2. M7zte 8B 1952
= is INITIALS ON ORIGINAL

a =_

Direcotr, FBI

Re: BORDERLAND SCIENCES, RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
San Diego, California; MEAD LAYNE, Director;
MAX FREEDOM LONG, Director

6. That the flying saucers are not fantasies; that
they are factual and actuals that his associates in the captioned
orgenization have been in conversation with the men operating
the flying saucers, and that they have asked that high officials
of the U. S. Government be informed that they are here on our
planet on a peaceful mission and that they are not on a warlike
mission. However, if the U. S. Government continues to send
planes after these flying saucers and if these planes fire on
the flying saucers, they have disintegrators which they will
utilize and which will disintegrate these plmes completely in
no time flat.

Mr. OHM requested that either I myself attend the

meeting at 1:00 PM or that I designate a stenographer to attend ae eed

the meeting, so that she could take down all the minutes of the
meeting. I told him that wnfortwmately this was very short

notice, that I had another commitment and that our stenogrephers
were pretty well occupied at that time. He said he would advise

me of anything important that might transpire at the meeting. |
As of August 2, 1952, he has not advised me of anything which
transpired at the meeting. .

I should like to point out that OHM appears to be
a perfectly sane, sound individual; he operates a very large
insurance business in San Diego, and is convinced in his ow
mind of the efficacy of this organi zation.

No investigation is being conducted concerning this
matter and I do not contemplate attending any meetings of this
organization,

August 25, 1952

Mre Co Sei Lhoinskti
Koshkonong, Missourt

Dear Mr. Choitnskis

Your letter dated August 14, 1952, has been
recetved, and I want to thank you for affording me the
benefit of your observations.

Inasmuch as the matter to which you refer
ts of interest to another governmental ayency, I am
taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of your com-
nanicatiton to the Director of Special Investigations,

fhe Inspector General, Department of the Air Force,
The Pentagon, Washington 25, De C.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

Copy of incoming sent to the Director of Special
Investigations, the Inspector General, Department of
the Air Force, by form letter.

LH:pazbkh

STANDARD FORM NO, 64 s )

Office Memorandum e UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

yh
TO : Mr. Ae He afingX? / DATE: August 22, 1952
— Sai
FROM : Mre We Ao pnans pas yer Tolson

Ladd

Clegg

SUBJECT: FLYING DISCS

( * Glavin

} Nichols
a Rosen

Tracy

PURPOSE: a

Belmont
Mohr.

To recommend existing instructions to the field Tele. Room
re flying discs be called to the attention of the we
field. es

BACKGROUND:

A review of communications received from the
fteld indicates they are not observing existing
tnstructions contained in Bureau Bulletin #57, para=
graph D, dated 10/1/47, and SAC Letter #38, dated
3/25/49, to refer details of complaints regarding
flying saucers to OSI locally.

ACTION:

It ts recommended the attached SAC Letter
be tssued.

aa

71 SEP 101952

|
on 2

STANDARD FORM No. 64 » *
‘

Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

A. H. ae DATE: August 18,

W. Aw BRAN Pew

FLYING DISCS

PURPOSE?

To advise all Supervisors engaged on night
duty of instructions concerning the referral of
flying disc information to OSI.

BACKGROUND:

Captain William Deegan, OSI, 4th Air Force
Base, Bowling Field, has requested that any information
concerning the sighting of flying discs (saucers, etc.)
be telephonically furnished immediately to his office,
day or night, by dialling Code 1261, and asking for
Extension 509. Captain Deegan advised the Air Force
ts greatly concerned about the captioned matter, and
would appreciate the Bureau's cooperation in immediately
advising of details received concerning such compldints.

ACTION?

It is recommended a copy of this memorandum

\be filed in the night and week-end Supervisor's book :
tn your office for their information. PB,

EHV sdrg ‘|

1952

(C) “FLYING DISCS -- Reference is made to Bureau Bulletin #57,
Paragraph D, dated October 1, 1947, and SAC Letter :38, dated
' March 25, 1949, in the captioned matter,

It is noted that some Bureau field offices are not fur-
nishing to OSI locally complaints regarding flying discs, pursuant
to existing Bureau instructions,

Upon receipt of information by your office relating to
the sighting of a flying disc, you should endeavor to determine
from the complainant details of the type referred to in the Air
Force memorandum, which was furnished to your office as an enclosure
to SAC Letter #38. The information should then be promptly fur-
nished to OSI locally by your office, As you are aware, the in-
vestigation of so-called flying discs is the responsibility of the
Department of the Air Force,

nahn

Not RECORDED
QO SEP 1952

-_—_

ORIGINAL FILED IN /

.
-

~ STA¥SARD FORM NO, 64 & - *
aye ff i

,k Office Menu wwAUM + UNITED SLATES GOVERNMENT
{

pe

TO 8: MR, HARBO /\¢ parr: August 29, 1952

FROM: D. J. PARSON ()_, Tote0n

SUBJECT: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJEC’ g ‘
ALLEGEDLY CITED BY MR. D. SXDESVERGERS, mt
WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA So

Rosen.
Tracy.

By letter of August 26, 1952, the Air Force requested
that we examine the cap of Mr. Desvergers, a scoutmaster
at West Palm Beach, Florida, who claims that he observed a
unidentified flying object in a desolate area, He report Goukarg ra
that upon his investigation, a MBB object 30 feet in diam fen
hovered over his head and shot a "red blob" which cause aut? | Paby
lose consciousness. The cap has some holes burned in it and 34
is reported that the hair on Desvergers' arms was singed. The
Air Force requested that we determine, tf possible, from any
residues left the nature of the residual material.

The Air Force desires an oral report on this tonight.
We have finished the eramination and are preparing to advise the
Air Force as follows:

1. There is no residue which would permit a determination
as to the nature of the material which caused the burns in the
cap. In addition to the obvious burns, there is one minute burned
area which is probably too small to have been caused intentionally
but more likely by a small hot ember,

2. The bill and a large part of the edges of the cap
are singed but the singeing is not uniform as would be expected
if it had been caused at one time by a single flash of flame, The
front edge of the cap bill is more severely singed than other
portions of the cap. This condition would not be expected if the
source of the flame was directly overhead,

3. When the cap is observed from the front, the left
edge of the insignia and the fold in the blue cloth, there is an
absence of singeing noted under the fold suggesting the possibility
that the cap was not being worn when the singeing took place.
It is noted that this fold "smooths out” when the cap ts placed
on the head.

RECOMMENDATION: That in response to the request, of Colonel Free
jof the Air Force, tt is recommended that he be

G ray ah heeds i the above. eae £2 ¢-HS
PB tawe “Le SDs ac: C | |

, Bo J 7 b/ Pr
j
/ j
p
.

os
-

September ll, 1952

Mr, Rog tlwell
Roadstown, New Jersey

Dear Ur» Elwelid:

Your letter postmarked September 6, 1952,
has been received, and I appreciate the interest

prompting you to let me have the benefit of your
observations.

Since the contents of your communication
may be of interest. to other governmental agencies,
I am taking the liberty of forwarding copies of itt
to the Administrator of Civtl Aeronautics, Civil
Aeronautics Administration, Department of Commerceéys
Washington, D, C.y and to The Honorable, The Secretary
of Defense, The Pentagon, Washington, D. C,

Sincerely yours,

5

‘Le

a
eS John Sdgar Hoover
rd Director

id Q3AIZ93U

copy by form sent to Civil Aeronautics Administration
‘JS =pCopy by form sent to Secretary of Defense 3
eae

Clegs.

Olavin

ine
=" oO SEP 25 1959

Tele. Am.

SEP | 2 1959
MAILED 79

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 é a

Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

A{A.
TO eS FAS Es Belfaht?. DATE: September 20, 1952
FROM : Gia: Bes Hennrich(”, .
SUBJECT: STRANGE WHITE OBJECT SEEN OVER Y
MONTANA ON ey R 19, 1952 \

I talked wy 4 ‘SAC Plaxico.of Butte on September 20,
re _ the attached“news releases indicating that the FBI
was investigating a strange white object which reportedly
streaked across the sky of Montana for about one hundred

miles. Mre Plaxico stated that while a report of this
object had been received at the Butte Office, that no
none % was contemplated.
ACTION:

For your information.

Attachment
CEH:meh \

60 Ovi 6 1957

Prep. J. EEK HOUT up.
49, STADHOUDERSLAAN ‘
r HE AAGUE THE HAGUE, October 6th

THE NETHERLANDS

4.

Department cf Justice
Pederal Bureau of Investigation
Pennsylvania Avenue
WASHINGTON Die Oe

\

In the care of Mr Bailey
Rm 1246

Dear Mr Bailey,

Excuse me please if I misspelled your name, but

saw it in writing.

On May 5th at 2.15 P.M. of this year I paid you

in the F.B.Il.offices, where I told you details on
Be santas you will surely remember. At the end of
conversation I promissed you not to talk sbout it un=
til I had received word from you whether or not
authorities were interested. It was taken for srante Ci chat
a few months might elapse before the answer could be given.

Five months have passed by since then, and as
the subject has now become active in Europe, I am really
anxious to go ahead with it, I have ofcourse tried to
check the theory on eachvaspect and while doing so I
found various complementary as well as fundamental details.

I have now reached the point however where I
would like to discuss the whole with an exnert and T
would therefor certainly appreciate to know whether I have
to consider our agreement on comolete silence as still
being valid and necessary or not

Tt might be that you are too busy to be able to ,~
write to me of that the authorities are not interested. As (9
Ne Sate ; R a rereiaier oa
it is not my intention to bother you too much with it, I
will take it that there is no longer any necessity for

silence on my part i? IT do not raceive. ‘any information to
fhe contrary by the end of this month.

By this proposition I do not intend to force an
issue but I would like to discuss a slibject like this with
scientists friends of mine, which,I cannot do as long as I
am bound ba my promise to you. We

With very kind regards, ZN

Yours’ Truly

Pe =?
ole

314

Oct
etober 10, 1952 AIR MAIL

WK abet ~~ i314

cee 9 Stadhouderslaan
gj - aaxae The Hague
The Netherlands

my »

hdr ur. Eekhout:

Your letter dated October 6, 1952, has been
recétved.

You will perhaps recall being advised at the
time of your visit to this Bureau that the matter discussed
was not within the jurisdiction of the FBI. However, in
view of your imminent departure from Washington the infor-
mation was accepted for transmittal to the appropriate
agency, which was to contact you if interested.

Full details were made available at that time to
the Department of the Air Force for evaluation and consider-
ation. In the absence of some arrangement between you and
the Air Force, your further use of the pertinent facts is,
of course, a matter for your own determination,

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director
NOTE ON YELLOW:

Bulet to OSI, Air Force, Gated 5-7-52 transmitted data
furnished by Lekhout to the Bureau 5-5-52 concerning his ideas
as to plans for a workable flying disc. Eekhout was informed
that further contact with him, tf any, would come from the
interested Government agency rather than the Bureau. No mention
was made of his keeping the facts*secret pending a reply from
the Rureau or the Air Forces. (62-83894-273)

Wun yy P
VH 2ram nN} j

; j ‘
6h m9
Candy + c 4 \) ¥ a ae
~ vd . OOM A

, DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE } 4

HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

30 September 1952

Buch Poa ec hSpgzuce

Comments on Article in The NEW YORKER

MEMORANDUM FOR: MR. COX

SUBJECT :

1. A call was made to the Air Technical Intelligence Center,

1330 this date, (Captain Ruppelt) regarding the attached article.
iP A

2. ATIC did not in any way indicate to Mr\(Lang that the
FBI has an interest in flying saucers. Furthermore, Captain
Ruppelt stated that the FBI to his knowledge has never been called
upon to furnish reports on@lying saucers. ATIC is under the
impression that Mr. Lang made the Story up or picked it up from
a magazine or newspaper article sometime back that definitely
was not associated with their organization.

3. ATIC suggests that you check further with Mr. Al Chop,
Office of Public Information, and perhaps he can supply you with
the information you have requested,

CM eerF

1 Incl: C
Article fr NEW YORKER, ColoneY, USAF
Chief/ Policy & Wanagement Group

dtd Sept 6, 1952
Directorate of Intelligence

UNRECORDED COPY FILED JN

Z vy,
© Ore

OL APELOMRF

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

OFFICE OF PUBLIC INFORMATION
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

hese ole

ee

Dp farm Mew
hd
a

el

The following information concerning Air Force investigations of unusual
aerial phenomena is submitted in answer to your request.

In the Fall of 1947 the United States Air Force took official notice of
reports of so-called “flying saucers” becanse the reports from the public
indicated that the problem might be related te the Air Force responsibility for
the air defense of the United States.

On December 30, 1987 the Air Foree dtrected its Air Materiel Command, at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio, ta set up e project to collect and
evaluate all available facts concerning “flying saucer” sightings.

To perform this task the Air Materiel Command obtained the services of
civilian and military astronomers, psychologists, electronic specialists,
meteorologists, aeronautical engineers, and physicists.

On December 27, 1949, after 375 reported sightings had been investigated, the
Air Force, with the concurrence of the Army and the Navy, announced the findings
of the "flying saucer" project.

The evidence at that time indicated that the majority of the reports of
unidentified flying objects could be accounted for aa misinterpretations of
various conventional objects, a mild form of hysteria, meteorological phenomena,
light aberrations, or hoaxes,

There remained, however, a number of unexplained sightings, and the Air
Force has continued its investigations inasmuch as it is an Air Foree responsi-~
Dility to identify and analyze aerial phenomena that could possibly be a menace
to the United States.

Subsequent to December 19h9, these investigations have been conducted as

a normal intelligence function, rather than a special project, by the Air
Technical Intelligence Center, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Qhio.

yy Se

To date, the Air Force has undertaken to investigate and analyze -about
1500 reports dealing with these phenomena. As before, most of the reports were
identified and disposed of as friendly aircraft erroneously reported, known
electronic and meteorological phenomena, light aberrations, hoaxes, and other
known natural occurrences or man-made objects.

The unexplained reports, however, which are in the order of 20 percent of
the total, cannot be definitely associated with these familiar things.

Difficulty in Evaluating Reports

The difficulty in disposing of these unexplained reports is based largely
upon the insufficiency of accurate basic data such as size, shape, composition
and flight characteristics (speed, acceleration, altitude, exact maneuver pattern,
etc.) of the objects.

Although some instruments which are useful in obtaining more accurate data
of this type have been available, the reports based on sightings with these
instruments have been very infrequent and comprise an extremely small percentage
of the total, Moreover, even these reports have not included much of the
information required.

Because of the inadequacy of this basic data, the Air Force has in the past
devoted its efforts primarily to determining whether these unexplained sightings
indicated the existence of a menace to the United Stetes. Initially it was
believed that some pattern might evolve from the study of a large volume of
reports. To date, no pattern has materialized to reveal anything whatsoever
which can be interpreted as indicative of purpose or consistency or which can be
construed as a menace to the United States. Nonetheless, since these unexplained
sightings persist, the Air Force will continue its investigations, giving the
problem adequate but not frantic attention,

It is now felt, however, that reports from people whose training and
experience in observing aerial objects qualify them to obtain essential data
are the only ones likely to produce material suitable for systematic analysis.
The Air Force is planning to provide additional tools to help these observers
obtain the basic data it needs.

Reports of similar phenomena go back to Biblical times. There have been
flurries of them in various centuries, The current series of sightings began
generally in 196,

There are many reasons why the volume of these reports has increased
materially during the past few years. Aerial activity originated by man has
increased, and people today have a greater curiosity about this activity than
before. Also, our present efficient communication facilitios and news media
provide an incentive for reporting unusual observations, for publicizing them
and for recording them. However, the ability to measure these phenomena does
not seem to have advanced in step with opportunities for observing them. The
Air Foree believes that most of these phenomena will gradually be understood
as more is known about occurrences in the upper atmosphore.

a A

ct ®»

Sourte of Reports

The majority of reports of aerial phonomena have come from civilians, About
8 percent come from civil airlines pilots, while approximately 25 percent aro
reported by military personnel. Reports have been received also from highly
qualified scientists, Although primary significance is attached to reports from
qualified observers, there is no intention to discredit untrained observors.

Radar Sightings

The Air Force has received many reports of unusual images on radar Sscopos.
It is fairly well established that some of these images are ground objects
reflected from a layer of warm air above the carth (a temperature inversion).

Temperature inversion reflections can give a return on a radar scope that
is as sharp as that received from an aircraft, Speed ranges of these returns
are reportedly from zero to fantastic speods. The “objects” also appear to move
in all directions.

Such radar sightings have resulted in hundreds of fruitless intercept
efforts.

One sciontific theory holds that light can bo similarly reflected from a
layer of warm air above the earth and, if proven to be correct, this could
account for some visual sightings.

Bearing out the theory of temperature inversion reflection is an incident
which occurred in January 1951 near Oakridge, Tennesseo. Two Air Force aircraft
attempted to intercept an unidentified "object" and actually established a radar
"lock" on the object. Their altitude at the time was 7,000 fect. The unidentifiea
object, according to their radar, appeared to be at an elevation of ton to 25
degrees. Three passes were made in an attempt to close on the object. In each
instance the pilots reported that their radar led thom first upward and then
down toward a specific point on the ground.

Tonized clouds are believed to be the cause of some unidentified radar
returns, Thunderstorm activity is identifiable by radar, and radar is used for
the purpose of avoiding thunderstorms. In addition, radar has picked up many
objects first reported as “unidentified phenomena” which were later identified
as aircraft, birds, balloons, ice formations in tho air, or other known aerial
objects or manifestations,

Policy Regarding Attempted Interception

No orders have been issued by the Air Defense Command to its fighter units
to fire on wnidentified aerial phenomena, The Air Defonse Command is charged
with air defense of the United States, and its mission is to attack anything
airborne which 49 known or appoars to be hootile. This should not bo intorproted
to poan that ow pilote will firo haphosardly on anything thet flies.

-3-

Attempts at interception are not made overy time that unidentified images
appear bricfly on an Air Force radar-scopo. Current Air Force interceptors are
short-range, short-duration, high-speed aircraft and can be omployed most
effectively whon it is possiblo to track a target by visual or radar means
80 that its position in the air at some future time may be predicted with a
reasonable degree of accuracy,

Methods of Evaluating

The first step in evaluating sightings of unusual aerial phenomona is to
collect all available data and check it against known airborne objects such as
balloons, aircraft, missiles, meteors, and weathor phenomona, If still unexplained,
reports from reliable sources, with sufficient details, are turned over to
specialists in various sciontific fields for further analysis.

Future Plans for Evaluating

As stated earlier, there is a need for better reports from trained observers
using adequate equipment, The Air Force intends to implement its present study
with instruments wherever possible,

The recent dovelopmont of special photographic equipment may make it possible
to gather data hitherto unobtainable through ordinary photographic methods. This
equipment consists of a diffraction grating camera which separates light into its
component parts (spectrum) and rogisters them on film, Tho principle involved is
that used by astronomers in determining the composition of the stars, In this
manner Air Force scientists may be able to determine the characteristics of the
phenomena and subsequently identify the source,

Another proposal involves the use of a continuously operating Schmidt
telescope equipped with a camera, This telescope has a wide aperture lens and
is capable of covering a cone of 150 degreos or nearly the whole sky from horizon
to horizon. This equipment will make it possible to get on a series of photo-
graphic plates a complete record of what happens in the sky at night.

What "Saucers" Are Not

The Air Force has stated in the past, and roaffirms at the present timo, that
these unidentified aerial phenomena are not a secret weapon, missile or aircraft,
developed by the United States, None of the three military departments nor any
other agency in the government is conducting experiments, classified or otherwise,
with flying objects which could be a basis for the reported phenomena, As far 28
is known there is nothing in them that is associated with material or vehiclos
that are dirocted against the United States, from another country or from other
planets,

Your interest in this matter is greatly appreciated. Please call upon us if
we may be of further service.
Sincerely yours,

Russians
so-called
aa stack of

fore. “E soph, ones aid,

have nothing to do

saucers; Il swear te was

Bibles, if you like. 9

have any secret ne

that could have star

tion. Third, nobody
spotted space ships
planet. Fourth, ev
gators learned. has

to the public.”

on, has

other
investi-
vailable

HE first sa t occurred
n a business
firm that makes
was flying his
aehalis, Washing-
ington. The re-
sh on one wing
urned and, at a
distance vas about twenty
miles, sa¥ took to be nine tail-
less aircraft h g toward Mount
Rainier. their outlines quite
st the snow,” Air Force
quoted him as saying.
“They flew very close to the mountain-
tops, directly south to southeast, down
the hog’s-back of the range, flying like
geese, in a diagonal, chainlike line, as
if they were linked together . . . a chain
of saucerlike things at least five miles
long, swerving in and out of the high
mountain peaks, They were flat... and
so shiny that they reflected
the sun like a mirror.” Ar-
nold said he watched the
saucers for three minutes
and estimated their speed at
about twelve hundred miles
an hour.

Air Force technicians,

consulted by newspaper-

»men, said that any object

moving that fast would be

invisible to the naked eye at

Arnold’s estimated distance.

The press scoffed at Ar-

nold’s story, and he was re-

sentful. “Even if I see a

ten-story building flying

through the air, I won’t

say a word about it,” he de-

clared, and when he got

back to Boise he wrote a series of ar-
ticles about his experience for a mag-
azine called Fate.

No sooner were the skeptical news-
paper accounts printed than dozens of
people turned up with similar re-
ports. Another resident of Boise spotted
a disc over that city, “a half circle in
shape, clinging to a cloud and just as
bright and silvery-looking as a mirror
caught in the rays of the sun,” Lieu-

tenant Governor Donal«

of Idaho, disclosed that

had seen a comet-shaped objece _

over the western part of the s

finally dipped below the horize

said, (Later on, the personnel of Proj-
ect Saucer deciled that the Lieutenant
Governor had been looking at either
Saturn or Mercury.) Four cops in Port-
land, Oregon, saw a group of discs
“wobbling, disappearing, and reappear-
ing.”

Reports of other phenomena having
been seen in the skies appeared in the
papers almost daily. Two Army officers
at Fort Richardson, Alaska, reported
seeing a spherical object flying through
the air at incredible speed and leav-
ing no vapor trail; some fishermen off
Newfoundland saw a series of aerial
flashes, silver to reddish in color; a lady
in Oregon watched a group of saucers
spell out “‘P-E-P-S-I,” and alerted her
neighbors to the presence of foreign
agents practicing a secret code in our
skies; an Oklahoma City man saw a
saucer “the bulk of six B-29s;” and
a prospector in the Cascade Moun-
tains of Oregon saw six saucers in a
group, banking in the sun— ‘round,
silent, and not flyi ing in formation.” On
the Fourth of July, there were twelve
reports of saucers in widely separated
parts of the United States. One of
these saucers, sighted at Trenton, New

Jersey, was traced to a
fireworks display. Dr. Paul
Fitts, an Ohio State Uni-
versity psychologist who
was for a time attached to
Project Saucer, considered
this crowded condition in
the holiday skies the result
of mass suggestibility, the
same jumpy trait that
caused Americans to see
Zeppelins overhead during
and after the First World
War. “Our graphs show
that saucer incidents al-
ways increase dramatically
after publicity,” he has
since told me. “The sky,
you know, has been a
source of exciting visions
from time immemorial, and its attrac-
tion is particularly strong in our Jittery
moments.”

ROM the beginning, the officers in

charge of Project Saucer recognized
a peculiar difficulty in their assignment.
“If you look out the window and see
something, how can I prove or disprove
what it was if I didn’t see it and you
can’t tell me much about what you

‘

——

matic
record changer.

“Victrola” 45

Sia surest

Complete

tone system. (suggested list price)

@ Plays up to 14 records at one loading

e The only record and changer designed
for each other

e Records change from the center—the
modern way

e Includes $6 worth of RCA Victor al-
bums at’no extra charge.

Other “Victrola” 45 record changers
as low as $16.75.

Only RCAVICTOR

ee bp]
makes the Vietwola’ @ >

Tmks. @ Division of Radio Corporation of America

LOVELY TO LIGHT BY...

A candelabrum of
Italian wrought
iron in stylized
flower and leaf
design set off by
delicate scroll-
work and finished
in silvery black
for dramatic
contrast with
white candles.
Height 9'%",

8" across. $7.50

Postage .50,
west of Miss. .75

No C.0.D.’s please.
Open Saturday 9-5

Payne HOUSE OF ITALIAN HANDICRAFTS

217 East 49th St., New York 17, PL 9-6510

-
yUNite gh ieee

At leading furniture and department stores.
Send 3-cent stamp to Dept. N for booklet.

_UNION-NATIONAL, INC. © JAMESTOWN, N.Y.

saw!” Major “e
then the chief @@scf™p:ficer between
Wright Field and tl§J%high command
in Washington, said to me one day
shortly after Project Saucer had pre-
sumably become a thing of the past.
“Tt would be different if flying sau-
cers were known to exist. Then we
could have collected evidence indi-
cating the degrees of probability that
such things were sighted and the reason
for their appearance at a given place.
But it is impossible to proye, logically
and with finality, a double negative—
that is, that there are no flying saucers
and that people have not seen flying sau-
cers. The best we could do under the
circumstances was to deduce, first, from
the fact that it had not been proved, that
saucers had been seen and, second,
from the fact that reasonable theories
could be advanced to explain away all
the reports of seeing them, that probably
nobody had seen them at all. The
fewer the theoretical explanations and
the less plausible they were, the more
reason there was for suspecting people
had seen saucers.” The Major shook
his head, and continued, “It’s a difficult
concept to grasp, but so was the job we
were tackling.”

I asked Major Boggs whether there
was any way to account for the epidemic
of reports of strange celestial objects.
“Of course there is,” he replied. “If
you look up at the sky long enough, you
can almost always make out something
there that appears strange. And more
people are looking up now than ever
before. Kids don’t count freight cars
any more; they count airplanes, People
who were trained in air observation
during the war have gone right on
observing. Also, the public hasn’t for-
gotten that the atomic bomb was kept
secret from it for three years. This
time, people want to know what’s cook-
ing, so they look up.” Major Boggs
sighed. “Time was when people used
to make a wish if they saw a shoot-
ing star. Now they telephone the Air
Force.”

Major Boggs and I pondered this
unromantic age in silence for a mament.
Then he returned briskly to the prob-
lems that had confronted the investi-
gators. ““The one tangible thing we had
to work on was the fact that the sky is
full of things,” he said. “I can’t even
come close to estimating the number of
commercial and military aircraft up

*gs, who was

there at any given moment. Then, there }

are more than five hundred outfits of
one kind or another that release balloons
from time to time. These range from
simple weather balloons, ne” “eer than

page 67, 68

that—that while the information they
give me may be made f their
names never will be.’ mm cases,
Captain Ruppelt said,
has shown that the people he has inter-

investig PZ ation

viewed had been deceived by things
that have been deceiving others all
along—balloons, planes, meteors, and
so on—but a nettling residue of around
twenty per cent of the cases have wound
up in that ex: isperating old pigeonhole
“UU nidentified? Nothing, for
could be found to account
“something silvery directly
reported by a mystified Civil

labelled
example,
for the
overhead”
Aeronautics Administr: ation inspector at
Terre Haute. A commercial pilot who,
flying near Battle Creek, Michigan,
spotted “an oval-shaped silver object”
ahead of his ship, posed a similarly un-
solved problem, as did a highly respected
naval officer, stationed at the dirigible
base at lakeWusee New Jersey, who re-
ported that he had stared through his
binoculars at a brilliant i image making
turns that were far too tight for any
known aircraft.

a5 wenty-five per cent of the obsery-
ers interrogated by the Aerial Phenom-
ena Officer in the last two and a half
years have been military pilots. Eight
per cent have been commercial pilots,
some with as much as twenty years’ ex-
perience in the air, and at one sta ge in
the current phase of the investigation,
even a few physicists at Los Alamos,
New Mexico, men who make a fetish
of objectivity, were interviewed after
they reported having seen puzzling
atomic-
laboratories. “If you took
any one of these incidents by itself,
Captain
Ruppelt said. “But in view of the
number and calibre of the informants,

lights hovering above their
energy

it might not mean much,”

you couldn’t he Ip taking their claims
seri iously.”

In February, 1951, Dr. Urner
Liddel, a nuclear physicist attached to
the Office of Naval Rese: arch, at Wash-
ington, D.C., declared that at last,
thanks to the lifting of certain secu rity
restrictions, he could provide the solution
to the mystery of the > ies saucers:
They were “skyhooks,” he said—bal-

pons a hundred feet in di ameter, which

> Navy had secretly been sending up
for the past four years in order to
study cosmic rays. Dr. Liddel’s asser-
tion was immediately disputed by Dr.
Anthony O. Mirarchi, who, as former
head of the Air Force’s Atmospheric
Composition Bureau, had assisted in the
diagnosis of P roject Saucer reports. Dr,
Mirarchi said he thought the saucers
might be missiles from some foreign

HAVE YOU GRASPED
THE Southwick wea?

Has is tailoring so completely flexit
natural that the comfort contrast is re
markable, Once you experience the blissf
and casual distinction of SUPERFLEX co
tion, you'll never go back to over-stuffed
styled clothes. Suits from $70. Sports
from $55.

At these and oth.

PAUL STUART, INC. ARTHUR L
New York City Boston

WARNER & COMPANY JOHN WANAMAK
Baltimore, Md. Philadel

SIL STONE’S ROBERT kK
Milwaukee, Wis San Franc

For stores in oth.

GRIECO BROS., Inc., 200 Fift

HIGHLIGHTS IN 14K GOLD

Present her with a smart acce
the school year right and acc
Ring $40. 175 Movado
(Available in stainle
Poodle charm $53.50
Cut-out initials (Allow one wed

Shown Actual Size * Fed
Mail and Phone Orders Filled

BLACK, STARE

FIFTH AVENUE AT 48TH STR

EAST ORANGE MANHASS

RECO!

October 28, 1952

Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Ceo

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
143, Federal qo. of Investigation

RDED «M3 PT et = Spy

Subject: FLYING cisedee

There are attached for your tnfornation
@ copy of @ self-explanatory letter dated Yetober 21,
1952, and the enclosures thereto, received by this
Bureau from Mr. HNarvel #. Reeceée

ir. Reece has been advised that kis letter
has been referred to your Department. Mo further sation
ts being taken tn this matter by this Bureau.

~
Attobdment
a,

\
EHM:cem:mes  ;/

a
STANDARD FORM NO. 64 + *

3 Office Memorandu 7 UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

y
SL ie Ba. Bf. pare Ae DATE: October 85+ ggg
/ FROM : Keay | AK. <, 7.
, O a fe ry] hys—
| SUBJECT: ““pLYING SAUCERS ‘
Reference is made to an article which appeared in

"Tmervew Yorker" dated September 6, 1952, which is attached.
This axticle which was written by DanieI\~ang contained
inaccurate information regarding FBI investigations, indi-
cating that the FBI conducts certain inquiries regarding
flying saucers at the request of the Air Force. It is
pointed out here thats, although the Bureau did at one time
conduct some investigations regarding flying saucers, a
present agreement has been set up with the Atr Force whereby
the Air Force conducts all investigations pertaining to flying
saucers and the Bureau, upon receiving complaints of this nature,
merely turns the complaints over to the Office of Spectal
Investigations (OSI), which in turn transmits the information
to Air Intelligence. Air Intelligence has set up the Air
Technical Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base, Dayton, Ohio, for the purpose of coordinating and handling
of research pertaining to flying saucers.

Inquiry was conducted in order to determine, tf
possible, the source for the information appearing in the
attached article regarding FBI investigations. Lieutenant
Colonel L. L. Free in charge of the Espionage Branch,
Counter-Intelligence Division, Office of Special Investigations,
advised that no one in OSI has been contacted by Lang, and he
suggested direct contact by the Bureau Representative with
Air Intelligence to determine if Lang had been in touch with
anyone in that organization in order to gather information for
his article.

Colonel C. M. Young, Executive Officer to Major

General John A. Samford, Director of Air Intelligence, advised
_that Lang has not contacted General Samford's office.

Colonel Young also telephonically contacted Captain Ruppelt

of the Air Technical Intelligence Center, Wright-Patterson

Air Force Bases; Dayton, Ohio, on September 30, 1952. Captain 4
Ruppelt advised Colonel Young that they have never indicated y
in any way to Mr. Lang that the FBI has an interest in flying
saucers. Captain Ruppelt stated that the FBI to his knowledge

has never been called upon to furnish reports on flying saucers.
Ruppelt is under the impression that Mr. Lang made the story up \
or picked it up from some magazine or newspaper article sometime,»
back. Both Colonel Young and Captain Ruppelt are thoroughly f/i"
familiar with Bureau policy pertaining to flying gn pe

GW9-93<¢Guy — ,

Attachments (2) RECORDED - 116 Beno ih F:

eeones19s? =» won - Wy.

Memorandum for Mr. A. H. Belmont, 10/8/52

Colonel Young suggested that Jurther contact be made with
Mr, Albert Chop of the Office of Public Information, Office of
the Secretary of Defense, who represents the Air Force in
public relations contacts pertaining to flying saucer matters.

Mr, Chop was contacted and advised that he was familiar
with the attached "New Yorker" magazine article. He advised
that Lang had gathered most of the material about two years ago
when considerable publicity regarding flying saucers had appeared
in newspapers. He does not know where Lang gathered the material
at that time but assumes that he gathered it from various sources;
such as other newspaper articles. When the recent publicity
regarding flying saucers appeared in newspapers, Lang renewed
his interest in flying saucers and attempted to bring his
article up to date. He contacted Mr. Chop for further current
information. Mr. Chop advised that he gave Lang some routine
items of interest regarding flying saucer complaints and
investigations by the Air Force, but that he instructed Mr. Lang
not to contact the Air Technical Intelligence Center for further
information from that source. Mr. Chop also advised that at
no time was the FBI mentioned and that he has no idea where
Lang obtained the information appearing in his article concerning
FBI investigations. Mr. Chop advised that he is thor oughly
familiar with Bureau policy pertaining to flying saucer investi-
gattons,and that he at no time has indicated to any writer or
newspaper representative that the FBI conducts investigations
pertaining to flying saucers. Mr. Chop advised that, if the
Bureau desires, he would be glad to contact Lang to discreetly
determine where Lang obtained his information indicating that the
FBI conducts investigations pertaining to flying saucers. He
stated that he could make this contact without indicating in
any way the Bureau has contacted him. He was advised that his
offer of cooperation was apprectated, but that it was not
desired that he make such an inquiry at the present time.

There ts attached a current mimeographed form containing
current information regarding the whole flying saucer matter
which was turned over by Chop. This is the information which

stAwoeep FORM NO. 64 é : , t }
; «

Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO 8: MR. A. He BELMONT DATE: October 27, 1952

FROM : Ve P. KEAY/ /; — y i
( / "

SUBJECT: ~ FLYING SAUCERS v4

SYNOPSIS:

Air Intelligence advised of another creditable and
uneztplainable sighting of flying.saucers. Air Intelligence
still feels flying saucers are optical illusions Sai oe
pherical phenomena but some Military officicis are seniousLy
considering the possibility of interplanetary Ships.

BACKGROUND:

You will recall that Air Intelligence has previously
kept the Bureau advised regarding developments pertaining to Air
Intelligence research on the flying saucer problem. Air Intelligence
has previously advised that all research pertaining to this problem
is handled by the Air Technical Intelligence Cénter located at
Wright-Patterson. Adlon KOLGE..BASC»..DGYtOns, Ohios that approrimately
90 per cent of the reported sightings of flying saucers can be
discounted as products of the imagination and as explainable objects
such as weather balloons, etc., but that a small percentage of
extremely creditable sightings have been unerplainable.

DETAILS:

Colonel C. M. Young, Executive Officer to Major General
John Ae Samford,..Director of Intelligence, Air Force, advised on
OCLODCDnkdy 1952, that another recent extremely creditable sighting
had been reported to Air Intelligence. A Navy photographer, while
traveling across the United States in his own car, saw a number of
objects in the sky which appeared to be flying saucers. He took
approrimately thirty-five feet of motion-picture film of these
obj. » He voluntarily submitted the film to Air Intelligence who
had it studied by the Air Technical Intelligence Center. Experts
at the Air Technical Intelligence Center have advised that, after
careful study, there were as many as twelve to sizteen flying objects
recorded ON LAILSuhbedm; that the possibility of weather balloons, £
clouds or other explainable objects has been completely ruled out; Ad
and that they are at a complete loss to erplain this most recent AY
creditable sighting. The Air Technical Intelligence Center experts
pointed out that they could not be optical illusions inasmuch as

optical illusions could not be recorded on film.

C “) f

We : sz ay, OCT 30 1982"

Memo to Mr. A. He Belmont RE: FLYING SAUCERS
from Ve P. Keay

Colonel Yyoung.advised that Air Intelligence still feels
that the so-called flying saucers are either optical illusions or
atmospherical phenomena. He pointed out, ho
Military officials are seriously considering the possibility of
interplanetary ships.

ACTION:

None. This is for your information.

October 28, 1952

MTs Narvel—#/ Reece, CoTe Se He
1578 Yan Fandt Road
Cincinnati 31, Ohio

Dear Mr. Reece:

/

I want to thank you for your letter and the
enclosures which you forwarded to this Bureau.

I have taken the liberty of forwarding a
copy of your letter and the enclosures thereto to
the Department of the Air Force, tnasmuch as the
natter referred to in your letter ts within the
jurtsdiction of that Department.

Stncerely yours,

AA

,f

John Edgar Heober, |) Lace Fa

Director Od 00.180 1952
137

—— ee ae

EHM: cém:mes

on,
ry
PA ea
ie

Note: The Records Section has been unable to locate a cross
reference on the name Narvel Woodrow+ktece (64-32001-1-135,
encl. page 7). In view of the information contained in 64-32001-1,
it is not believed the reference will be pertinent in this ins tanceée
This action is being taken to expedite the Bureau's reply to the
correspondent.e Tile mentioned above concerns name check requests.
&

326

February 11, 1953

Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Ce

Froms John Edgar Hoover, Dtrector
, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: FLYING DISCS
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

There are attached for your information tn
the capttoned matter a Photostat of a letter dated
January 20, 1953, received by this Bureau fron
Mr. Robert De. Wolf, 19 North Forsythe Street, Franklin,
Indiana, with the enclosures referred to therein, and a
copy of this Bureau's reply to Mr. Wolf.

No investigation is being conducted by this
Bureau tn this matter.

ATTENTION SAC 'ss: Correspondent also enclosed a copy of
the January 19, 1953 issue of “Space Review", the publication
of The International Tlying Saucer Bureau, indicating the

address as Post Office Bor 241, Bridgeport, Connecticut.
This small periodical contains news of various I.F.S.B.
groups throughout the United “tates and England and news
items relating to flying saucers.

Wo references can be located in Bufiles on the I.F.8.8.;
“Space Review" or Albert K. Bender.

JOHNSON COUNTY

DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL DEFENSE

MONROE AND JACKSON STREETS
FRANKLIN, INDIANA

ee Es

ROBERT D. WOLF
Director 20 January 1953

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover
Director Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington, D. C.

Deer Sir:

I would first like to apologize for writing to you direct, however, I have
cleared this morning with our State Director end he suggests this procedure.

We have been having some success with our Ground Observation Pek: as we have

four: (4) posts here in the county ‘
(4) p ope FIZ B.

Last Fall I was contacted by one “of our local business men WEnting ’to kiiow if
I would be interested in joining t nternational Flying Saucer Bureaue I[ told him
that I would and did join with the idea fully in mind of having thé “local people who
are interested in Flying Saucers also work in our Civil Defense Program. We are
only too willing to co-operate in any way we can with Civil Defense. The city of

Franklin is approximately twenty (20) miles southwest of Indianapolis, on the dual
lane highway U S #51.

1/ I enclosing a letter which was received last October, as well as the current
[iseue fe) *~CE REVIEW, Would like to know if this organization has been cleared or
is subversive in any waye

I would appreciate your expediting this information back to us so that we will
know what steps to take in further enlisting interested persons in our program,

If you do not require the enclosures please return theme

Home Address:
19 North Forsythe St.
Franklin, Indiana,

The
J, ti, f .
ENDER J Ylying Saucer Bureau INTERNATIONAL

t and Editer : . *
and “All is possible to one who believes’’ HEADQUARTERS
MAX KRENGEL , P. O. BOX 241

Vice-Pres. and Treas BRIDGEPORT 2, CONN.

*

Great Britain Branch
: ; 71 Chedworth Road
October 26, 195 Horfield,

COUNCIL

ROBERT N. WEBSTER

Editor. “Fate” Magazine

WILSON “BOB” TUCKER
Author Editor of

Science News

ELLIOTT ROCKMORE
Editor - Publisher
“Saucer Review”
Y you about
SORGE D. FAWCETT pF lita, Rad oes
ave Saecorene pin thy 1 helping our organiz:
Collection frow larger and str

giant Rae ast letter you asked what course of
Culewre Magazine uv should take in -onnection with IF:

FRANKLIN M. DIET fest the followings

Editor and Publisher

“Science - Fantasy and ) A p int a

ana. \lso avnvoint

+

secret:

al Chairman of the IPSS
i

;
—
Science Fiction Frankl in, I
a

c
nd
nd

‘ ry.

BRITISH REPRESENTATIVE ‘
east twice am

BE. L. PLUNKETT where you can di ucer ha»vpenin
Retired Capt. &th Army . Oise '

gs and
local hall, or bette

it each others homes
you + wee sea - n > i

vy

nw cas
portion o i >4U0 memversn
retained Sy you to help your

», 18 an Internati

We will do any

The
ALBERT K. BENDER International Blying Saucer Bureau

P. ©. BOX 241
Presiden: and Editor et : ; 3?
All is possible to one who believes li cn nradile 9 asl
MAX KRENOEL ‘

Vice-Pres. and Treas. U.S. A.

ALLAN C. RIEVMAN
Secretary

)I1(

Keoort to IFSB all reports and sightings in
your area. However, first put the sightings
before your group and let them judge whether
they are authentic or mot.

Ke: a record of all clus memoers in your area
and their activities as far as I¥S8 in concerned.

( in if possivle (merely a suggestion), a tape
recordér so that you can send actual voice to
IFSB heedquarters. In this way, I as President,
could send messages for you to play at your local
meetings. In the future I may even »ay your city
a visit and attend one of ur meetings.

These are all merely sug estions for you to ponder over

if you decide to adopt any of them please eonsult with

Indiana Kepresent: tive, Mr. © bell. After you have
is, get in touch with me at nce.

stions wil
cal sroup

sincerely hope that these sugge
ng some move 2S to what youl s)

Forever Looking Up

sender

SPACE REVIEW

SAUCERS IN THE NEWS

May AGUEZ, PUERTO Rico, Oct. 3, 1952—
Strange objects were sighted by two per-
sons in Mayaguez on Oct. 3, they were
ruising East and were red in color. It was
ibout 10:30 p.m. when they were sighted.

NokWAY AND SWEDEN, Oct. 13, 1952—
October the Norwegian Govern-
ment stated that a strange object resemb-
ling a saucer landed on Norwegian soil.
German experts are claiming that the de-
vices are of Russian origin, and the des-
ription given by Norway fits the descrip-
on given by German experts. Stockholm,
Sweden, has also been sighting strange
objects

During

MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA, Sept. 13, 1952

-A young woman sighted a noiseless
green ball flying too fast to be a plane or a
meteor. She sa smelled like a rotten

9
egg

Nov. 1, 1952
ag of the third Inte
ational Astromautical Congress in Ger-
nany where 200 s entists from 12 co
tries gathered they stated that saucers
not from Mars or any other planet
said they are merely optical and

lusrons

STUTTGART,
At the recen

New YorK—A terrife air
place over a small area of
Lo N_Y., which broke windows,
racke: ewalks and caused general
nic. There were no planes around
duled at that time, Oct. 1952

ERNATIONAL AIRPORT, NEW YORK,
kt. 16. 1952—A blue flame flashed over
rnatvonal Airport at 7:33 p.m. It was
ill-like object. Hayden Planeta-
ul stated it may have been the

f a meteor.

| &, YORK, ENGLAND, Sef 20,
16 During exercise “Mainbra RAF
pilots sighted a ‘white object at 15,000
feet. The object was silver in color and
circular. It maintained a slow forward
speed before beginning to descend, swing-
ing like a pendulum. It followed the air-
craft, revolved ot own axis at nes

and then took

WasHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 16, 1952—-The
Navy announced that it launched rockets
from giant balloons, high above the North
Geomagnetic Pole, and sent them to alti-
tudes of about 40 miles. The balloons were
as tall as a 10-story building.

PaRIs, FRANCE, Oct. 7, 1952-— A flying
saucer was sighted over Southern France
y two Air France pilots.
WESTERN KOREA Front, Oct. 29, 1952
U.S. troops saw a half-dozen mysterious
park-throwing ‘‘cartwheels’’ over the wes
ern front of Korea. They were as the eye
ices, 18 inches in diameter, moving in a
1 5-foot circle.

GAILLAC, SOUTH OF FRANCE, Oct. 29,
1952-—For the second time in two weeks,
20 townspeople of Gaillac saw a series of
white circular objects, slightly swollen at
the center, spinning across the sky, they
were flying in formation of two and were
grouped around something that looked
like a giant flying cigar. As the objects
passed overhead they. let fall a sort of
string of bright whete threads, which set-
tled gently os es and telephone lines
When the people tried to pick them up,
they melted like ice. A police officer who
picked up some of the thread said: “It
looked like glass wool and it melted away
almost as soon as it was touched.”

OLORON, FRANCE, Oct. 17, 1952—About

a dozen people, including a schoolmaster,
saw flying saucers surrounding a long cigar
like object flying through a clear sky at
ibout 6,000 feet.

New ZEALAND— The clippings and stor-
ies from New Zealand are swamping our
office and are so numerous that we must
devote a whole page to them in our April
ssue.

For move detatled information on any

lease write to IPSB

i the above

Please date

to us. and note the source.

your clippings that you send

SPACE REVIEW

SUTTON, WEST VIRGINIA MONSTER MAY BE

“COLLIER’S” ROCKET!
Rev. S. L. Daw, Washington, 0.C., Representative, IFSB

I have personally photographed flying saucers six times and personally photographed
the place where one landed in Charleston, West Virginia. I also talked to two eye-witnesses.
| saw and talked to a police officer who was burned by one in Wheeling, West Virginia.
My own cousin was the doctor who treated him.

| attempted to photograph one going over Melessa Pass, 5000 feet up in the Blue
Ridge mountains, as I was at a height of 2500 feet at Wahala Glen just directly opposite
from Melessa Pass. The picture was not too good due to the mist from the mountains.

The object that landed at Charleston, West Virginia was described as a large metal
ball, throwing off a white light and after landing, two small men in red emerged from
a trap in the top and climbed up a tree to look around. Seeing people watching them, they
got back in sad took off. We can prove what this was: In the attempt to shoot rockets to
the moon, there is a device with the motors on the wings and the body of the device is
a jet propelled apparatus which throws off a large aiaaat the ed disc which throws off a
red color trom the center which when reflected could easily be taken for some sort of a
smal] person. This was described in Collier's magazine of October 11, 1952.

A. cording to the Washington Daily News, the monster seen at Sutton, West Virginia
could be the rocket described in Collier » magazine. The picture on the cover of the maga-
zine shows a sphere-headed, wide-botromed, tank-bellied rocket craft spewing out burning
hydrazine and nitric acid as it lands hind-end on the moon. The West Virginia people

laimed to have seen: “An object estimated at 10 feet tall, four feet wide at the bottom
hape of a man. Two lights flashed from side to side, the machine made a noise

ike gas escaping, and a sharp sicken as about.’ Sounds somewhat the same.

The United States may be expe ith something that the public is not aware
of, and it is doing its best to keep : e The age of rocket ships is just around the
corner.

CIVILIAN SAUCER INVESTIGATION OF NEW ZEALAND
CONTACTS IFSB

The Civilian Saucer Invest:, 1 of New Zealand was set up in New Zealand on
October 13, 1952. They plan to e or disapprove the existence of saucers. It has no
afhliation with the Government urmed forces, or to any society to which its members
may belong. Most of the mem have been studying flying saucer reports for at least
five years. They represent all interested parties astronomers, scientists, aviators, and the
man in the street. The committee ssists of Mr H. H. Fulton, a sergeant in the R.N.Z.A.F.
attached to engineéring, who is the President CSI of NZ; Mr. R. J. Lavaris, a member
of the Territorial Air Force, wh the secret of CSI of NZ; Mr. G. H. Gilmore, avia-
tion engineering inspector; D. Lavaris, a stu studying for a science degree; and E. J.
Greager, an astronomer and eng

Aims of the committee are orrespon h kindred bodies overseas, and to ulti-
mately find the origin of flying s and tt nparison.

H. H. Fulton, and Mr. R La en made members of the International
t IFSB. We hope to est. lish elations with this society and get a rep-
New Zealand. CSI sent to It urge map of New Zealand showing all
saucers have been sighted wit ory of each sighting. A complete report
ve made in our next issue. ¥ CSI of New Zealand the best of luck
hey will be a success.

SPACE REVIEW

EDITORIAL

In 1492 Columbus discovered a new world after traveling thousands of miles across
the great expanse of unknown waters called the Atlantic Ocean. It was a great adventure,
yet one that was laughed at, ridiculed, and even spoke of as a ‘‘folly’’.

Here was a small group of men searching for what lay beyond the known, endeavor-
ing to unfold the mysteries of lands that were not supposed to exist. All they had were
three small ships laden with provisions that they estimated would iast the journey.

The seas were infested with monsters, so the skeptics said, and the world was flat
with a dropping off place. Columbus proved these fallacies to be wront, when he landed
in the West Indies.

The years directly ahead of us will see another great adventure such as this. A smal
group of men will assemble in a certain designated place, climb into their ship, a ship
vastly different than that of Columbus's time. This ship will be a rocket shop, and its oc-
cupants will shoot off into the vast sa of space to find new worlds, new peoples, and
new frontiers.

They will be laughed at, they will be ridiculed, and the whole thing will be called
the greatest ‘folly on earth, but will #& be such? Time has proven that impossibilities
become realities, the automobile, the airplane, radio, telephone, telegraph, television,
and the smashing of the atom are defimste proof. All is possible to one who believes,—and
I am a sound believer!

*

FROM THE ASSOCIATE EDITOR'S DESK

The mysteries of space have | ascinated most people on earth. One need not be
onomer to gaze in awe at th it which unfolds before the eyes as we gaze sky-
any clear night.

vastness of space is difhculr to explain, even for astronomers. When distances
n of it is simpler for learned men to use the term “light years’’ than miles. The
'f celestial bodies suspended in space like our own earth are unknown. The
re from millions on up. But they remain just that—guesses.

who make our home on a mere cinder of matter in the eyes of space, cannot be

ugh to think that intelligent life exists only here. Those who believe that there

for everything which happens, should agree that these mitlions of bodies in
serve more of a purpose than just twinkling brightly on a clear night.

Published quarterly by Albert K. Bender, Editor; Max Krengel, Associate Editor; Printed
by Reliable Press, Bridgeport, Conn. Subscription Price: four issues, to members, $1.00;
to non-members, $1.40 per year. Individual copies $.35. Exclusive publication of the IFSB,
P.O. Box 241, Bridgeport 2, Conn., U.S.A. Send all news and articles to this address.”

SPACE REVIEW

“MY THEORY”

by IFSB Members

_ THEORY NO. 6—Submitted by BARBARA KNORR, Member from Connecticut

Everybody seems to believe that the “saucers”, whatever they are, come from this
Solar System. I do not believe any other planet but ours can support intelligent life. Per-
haps plant life, but not human.

I do believe that if our planet can support life, why not other planets in other Solar
Systems. I do not believe that these pee. wish to destroy us because if they had they
could have done so long ago. Also, how do we know that these things we sce are not
beings themselves.

THEORY NO. 7-—Submitted by Representative LOUIE MASONICK, JR., of Minnesota

My theory is one most IFSB members seem to have. First, I believe they are from an-
other planet. All those stars must have something going around them. All those celestial
bodies must be up there for some reason, besides to look at. Then, also, they may even
be from our Solar System.

I do not think an official agency of our government should come out and say—''we
do not know what they are and whether or not they are a menace.’ The best way to reveal
the objects would be through clubs like the IFSB. I do not believe that they are a menace.
I think there is intelligent life on them and that they are just observing us

THEORY NO. 8 —Submitted by Representative ALAN RIEVMAN of Connecticut

My theory on the origin of the flying saucers’ is that they are definitely real and
are from one of the planets of our Solar System. I do not believe that they are from one of
the other Solar Systems. These “'neighburs’’ probably thought that our planet could not have
intelligent life upon it, but with the fest atomic explosion they may have changed their
minds

n sure that they are not from barth because if they were ours it would be impos-
sible weep it quiet and if they were trom a foreign government they wouldn't be flying
ove! uted States, They would risk being shot down and their secret revealed to us.

THEORY NO. 9—Submitted by Representative VICTOR ROOT of Illinois

My theory is that the ‘flying saucers’ are manned ships controlled and operated by
intelligent creatures who are scouting our world. They will not try to make contact with
us for many reasons. One is that we are too arlike and emotional. Another is that we
have diseases which may harm or even kill them. Some day when we reach out and touch
the planets we may meet them. A rae of intelligent creatures other than ourselves, cer-

tainly does exist.

THEORY NO. 10—Submitted by Al AN STAZER, Member from California

1 think that the “flying sauces - from the solar system of ALPHA or PROXIMA
CENTUARI. Most likely the 3rd or 4th planet. The planet is probably about 4000 miles
in diameter and two-thirds as big as the earth. Some other reasons are that Centauri is too
far distant for observation of such a small body as a planet. This star is of about the same
size and the same spectral, type-GO, as the Sun. Editor's Note: WOW!

All theories become the property of IFSB and cannot be returned.

SPACE REVIEW

HIGHLIGHTS ABOUT REPRESENTATIVES

DICK CAMPBELL, Rep. Indiana—Rep. Campbell has written us many interesting letters
and aided in making his home town of Franklin the only city in the world with the most
IFSB members. At present it totals over twenty. He was assisted by Mr. Louis Frahm, and
Mr. Jack Moore of that place.

* * &

J. RONALD ALBERT, rep. Ontario, Canada—Will be appointed Representative of

CANADA AT LARGE. Doing a fine job. Would like more Canadians to join club.
* * *

VIC TOR ROOT, Rep. IHinois—One of our mast valuable representatives. He has #1658
reparing a map of the United States showing the places where saucers have
«He is quite a = too; see his peem in this issue. Mr. Root presented the

‘us saucer map. We are proud of it We are sorry to say that Mr. Root may

to California in the near future. It will be very hard to replace such an

* * -

ADDUS, Rep. Kentucky--Obtained two new members for IFSB. One of
Mrs. Glenn C. Fuller, saw a flying saucer. Her report will be in our next
Review’. Mr. Broaddus :s spreading the word about IFSB.
oe

DIA “UCHANAN, Rep. Iowa—-Obtained a new member, and has clippings she in-
tend od in to IFSB.

. * “”

GAIL SR AGUE, ae Wisconsin—Gail a as the cartoonist. She sent in a cartoon

really made the International Staff roll off their chairs. She showed the parlor

2 homme with the front door Open, a strange looking creature had walked in the door

ving muddy tracks on the floor. Outside can be seen a saucer parked on the lawn. A

housewife approaches the creature and this is what she says: “I don't care where you're

from. Look at my clean rug.’ She also sent us a fine poem that appears in this issue, Gail
obtained a new member for us also. She sure is showing fine interest

* ia +

ALLAN LEVINSKY, Rep. Maine——Claims that very few people are secing saucers in
Maine. Is doing his best to get people interested in IFSB.

* +

ROBERT R. RITTER, Rep. Tennessee——Chalks up another member for IFSB.
* * «@

LUIS LUHRING, Rep. Puerto Rico——Mr. Luhring has sent us numerous clippings from
Puerto Rico about saucers. He plans to get as many people as possible to join IFSB. He
says that the interest in saucers is as great in Puerto Rico as anyplace else.

* * +

S. L. DAW, Rep. Washington, D.C.—We are happy to have for our representative in
Washington, D.C., the first member of the clergy, Reverend Daw. Mr. Daw, as he prefers
to be called by club members, ‘is doing great work for IFSB. We are anxiously awaiting
to see his actual photos of saucers, that he took himself

BS s .
RONALD KINNEAR, Rep. New York—Took upon himself to advertise in his own
state and had 50 post cards printed and plans mail them out, in his state.

a ee

u ire nok getting any reports from some of our Representatives, It js absolutely

ww) that we hear from you, so please do your best to get those monthly reports roll-

{

SPACE REVIEW

DIRECTORY OF REPRESENTATIVES

The following are additional represemtatiwes since our last publication.
BRITISH REPRESENTATIVE—Edgar L. Plunkett, 71 Chedworth Rd., Horfield, Bristol
7, England; Assistant Representative for Britain---Denis Plunkett
PUERTO RICAN REPRESENTATIVE—Luis Luhring, Box 23, Punta Santiago
COLORADO—Verna M. Hampton, 4245 Alcott St., Denver
MAINE-—Allan Levinsky, 59 Atlantic St., Portland
MISSOURI-—Ralph Hetzel, 6 Scarsdale, St. Lows 17
NEW JERSEY—August C. Roberts, 443 Ogden Ave., Jersey City
NORTH CAROLINA—David T. Benton, Box 430, E.C.C., Greenville
OHIO—Robert © Schnelle, Sr., 714 McMaken Ave., Cincinnati
OREGON—G. L McColly, 524 Jersey St., Seiverton
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Rev. S$ L. Daw, 5119-—7th St., N.W., Washington
WEST VIRGINIA—Gray Barker, Bex 981, Clarksburg

tbove names will not be pubieed again, Additional names in future issues

Anyone that wishes to correspona with other members will please send ws permission
to print your name and address so that others will know that you desire correspondence.
We do not publish lists of our members names and addresses without permission from
them.

LET’S LOOK AT THE MAGAZINES

READERS DIGEST FOR JULY 1%: -Two articles: “Have We Visitors frorn Space,”

and ‘Flying Saucers—New in Name Only.”
RUE MAGAZINE, SEPT. 1952 The Flying Saucers and the Mysterious Little Men.”
OCT. 1952—''We Flew Above Flying Saucers.”
1952—"'What Radar Tells About Flying Saucers.’
MAGAZINE, OCT. 20, 1952—"'Moonbound,” Page 18.
ERS, OCT. 18, 1952—''Man on the Moon.”
CT. 25, 1952—"'More About Man or Moon.”

Pi. MAGAZINE, NOV. 1952—''How Do Saucers Fly?”

SIR MAGAZINE, DEC. 1952—'‘Flying Sasers and the Air Around Us.”

MR. MAGAZINE, JAN. 1953—'‘Is Washtngron Afraid of Flying Saucers ?’’

MAN TO MAN MAGAZINE, JAN /|953 Flying Saucers Are Not New.”

THE MYSTERY OF OTHER WORLDS REVEALED—A Fawcett Book No. 166. Ex-
elleat. A four star edition—-one of the finest to date in the pulp line. Cost 75c. We
ad all saucer-minded folk et this magazine. It is only once in a great while
thre publisher puts out ne publication. Contains news of Space Travel;
Flying Saucers; and Rocket ~pment

These magazines dre In {Me LIBRARY a pari of our collection. We will send
written information to anyone the sy have questions on above magazines.

Coming in April “SPACE REVIE™ ‘SAUCERITIS” by John Armitage of England.
An article that will make you really THINK!
A COMPLETE LISTING OF ALL OF OUR OFFICERS AND COUNCIL MEMBERS

SPACE REVIEW

EXCERPTS FROM A SUMMARY OF A FIVE-YEAR

FLYING SAUCER INVESTIGATION
By George D. Fawcett, International Council, IFSB

| have just decided to stop investigation that I began a little over five years on
f the most fascinating mysteries of modern times, that being the well known “ ying
er phenomena. Since the sumener of 1947 when the first saucer scare broke out in
United States, I have spent much of my time, money and energy seeking a solution
riddle, While carrying on my private investigations I was able to interview several
mers, scientists, pilots and guided missile experts, who had spotted these saucers
had been investigating or studying thse strange objects. In addition to these
have talked to many eye-witnesses whe had sighted these objects throughout

states and have mailed questionnaires out to many others.

* bulletins and scrapbooks on the saucers for the past five years, and while

| wrote a six-page panyees emtitled “The Flying Saucer Phenomena”

teachers, and classmates. | have lectured to several groups in Lynchburg.

interested im this phemomena from the very first, my sighting of an

ke globe which iol t four minutes over the Lynchburg College ad-

building in Lynchburg, Virgumia, om the morning of July 6, 1951, has in-

y interest threefold simce then. Tivat is ome of my reasons for stopping my inves-

It's really too big a job for one person te handle. We must aes that we are

vith a phenomena that 1s as fantasti as it ts fascinating. Many of the reports that
uble to gather in my collection tend to back this statement.

Some recent thoughts about the “flywng saucers” are that perhaps there will be some
landings soon. This doesn’t seem too / ved om that these flying saucers are still being
seen everywhere, for longer periods of and in groups instead of alone, as well as
nore reports of huge saucer or rocket sts Them, too, they seem to come and go at will,
perhaps being stationed as satellites themse

el that our government must ke omething about these saucers because in my

»p this very moment the United s ( rnment is Carrying on an educational
pri regarding interplan avel of our antry. Perhaps space ships from other
planets are already here! At amy rate, whether they are trying to prevent religious con-
troversy or panic or for any othe ves which they might have, our government is still
eleasing, denying, suppressing ating *eperts at imtervals for some reason.

rdless, the future will tell! In closing, I'd like to use a favorite phrase of Charlie
y, Lynchburg College student who said, “things are really looking up.” I wonder
hings aren't looking DOWN, too; Sooner or later we're bound to find out, and
| I can say is, ‘‘the sooner, the better.”

EDITOR’S NOTE: Mr. Faweett's discussions and opinions will be found in future

f Space Review.

PTENTION MEMBERS AND OFFIC you \ i interested jn receiv-
blem to wear on v it lapel he our b le PSB” engraved on a
nd, we would be rested it x »rder these emblems

nough people show ng in t i yuld approximately $1.00

C us kn w aS $O00N aS POSS

WE WANT ¥OU TO MEET

EDGAR L, PLUNKETT, BRITISH REPRESENTA TIVE—Born at Bristol, Glos.,
England, on December 26, 1903. Covered snu parts of the world as a radio operator at
sea from 1922 to 1936, including the USA, notably New York, Boston, Baltimore,
Norfolk, Newport News, Tampa, Mobile amd many other ports. Has many interesting
memories of the prohibition days, the gengeter era, Jack Dempsey, Babe Ruth, Lou
Gehrig and other notable highlights. Has wacked for many years for Anglo-American
friendship and still corresponds with friemsds hewe in U.S.A. Was called to service in 1939
Was rescued from Dunkirk Beaches by the Fremeh Destroyer L’Incomprise on June 1, 1940.
Went to Middle East in 1941, and served Ghemmmph three Western Desert Campaigns with
the British 8th Army. After fall of Tumis eas commissioned in Palestine and was then
posted in Egypt. Returned to England at tee ead of the war after four and a half years
service Overseas as a Captain. Now emplewed toy his original firm as a clerk.

He has a wife and three children, the: gee are Denis 21, now with the RAF, Diana
18, and Michael 14. Hobbies are writing wed reading and other journalistic yearnings
including poetry, plus an unabated desire %» travel. Since the formation of Civil Defense
a year or so ago, he has become a qualified wnsteuctor and lectures three evenings weekly
to industrial personnel.

Mr. Plunkett has shown Seat interes in IFSB activities and will without a doubt
prove to be our most valuable foreign repetsentative

Associate Bprror
(Next IssupApril 1, 1953)
POST OFFICE BOX 241
BRIDGEPORT 2, CONN.
U.S.A.

Return Postege Guaranteed

To

Mr. overt D. Wolf
19 N. Forsyth St.
Franklin, Indiana
10155%

Men STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to American Enbassy
File No 1, Grosvenor Square
London, W. 1

step - AIR COURIER

February 17, 1953
To: Director, FBI

From: Legal Attache

ae London, England

Subject: "FLYING SAUCERS"

“7 Major E. P. Walkers, Provo Marshall at the U. S. Air Force
Base at Mildenhall, England, telephonically contacted writer on
February 1h, 1953, regarding the new or revived interest in
"flying saucers." He stated he did not have any new information
to report but did know of an incident that took place several
years ago and which the Bureau may desire to check.

This incident, according to Major Walkers, concerns an article
or story on "flying saucers" which appeared in a small newspaper
with limited circulation in the Township of Jeffersonville, Delaware
Township, Sullivan County, New York. He was unable to recall the
name of the newspaper but was certain it is the only one published
in that area. ‘The story appeared in one of the early 197 issues or
in one of the issues during the last three months of 196. It was
written by a member of the U. S.Armed Forces and of significance is
the fact that subsequent issues failed to follow it up by carrying
additional stories on "flying saucers." Also significant is the
fact that it appeared in a small and practically unknown newspaper.

Major Walkers states he is merely reporting this for what it
may be worth and is being forwarded to the Bureau for any action con-
sidered appropriate.

- RUC -

62-85894 - JA)

RECORDED - Al... March 6, 1953

TO: Dtreetor of Spectal Investigations
The Inspector General

hela! Department of the Air Force

me The Pentagon
Washington 25, De Ce

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject: FLYING SAUCERS

The following information has been received by
this Bureau from tts representative in London, England, con-
cerning the captioned matter:

Major E. Pe Walkers, Provost Marshal,
U. S. Atr Force Base, Mildenhall, Sngland,
telephonically contacted tiie writer on February 14,
1953, regarding the new or revived interest in
"flying saucers." He stated he did not have any
new information to report but he knew of an
tneddent that took place several years ago which
this Bureau might desire to check.

This incident, according to Major Walkers,
concerns an article or story on “flying saucers”
which appeared in a small newspaper with limited
circulation located at Jeffersonville, Delaware
Township, Sullivan County, New York. He was
unable to recall the name of the newspaper but
was certain tt is the only one published in that
area. The story appeared gn oné of the early 1947
issues or tn one of the tasues during the last three
months of 1946. It waa written by a member of the
U. Se Armed Forces and of gignificance ts the fact
that subsequent tssues' failed to follow it up by

ene S$
: Ow 10649
|. COMM: FB
!

ai EHM: em
wr LU i

Si 1953

Office Memggandygn

e UNITED yn GOVERNMENT

TO 3: Ae He Belmont)” patz; March 10, 1953

SUBJECT:

Le He Martin

O
FLYING SAUCERS

JOHN BAILEY, INFORMANT

John Bailey called from Bowie, Maryland, at
9:05 PeMes 3/9/. to advise that he had just’ seen a
flying saucer neanw that citye He was vague as to
details and nonresponsive as to where he was calling
from and as to his residence. When asked where he
planned to stay tonights at least, in order that
Air Force might interview him tf deemed advisable,
Patley said the writer wanted to know too much and
disconnected. Since no specific information was furnished
and since the call may have been a prank, the Air Force
was not advised. Since no identifying information was
obtained, no attempt was made to check Bureau recordsSe

Recommendations:

File.

LEM: dnd \ }
\

Py
\
‘

ATelsoa —__.

Ladd

Nichols
Belmoot ____
Clege

Glavia

Harbo

Rosen

Tracy

Laughlin

Vinterrowd —_
Tele. Rw. —_
Hollowan_.
Gandy.

q

“ware 12, 1953. 13 a 3

Director of Special Investigations gw if?
The Inspector General 4
Department of the Air Force (LW
The

Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.

Prom: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject: FLYING SAUCERS

At 9:05 peme on March 9, 1953, an individual giving his
name as John Bailey telephonically contacted this Bureau and advised
he had just seen a flying saucer near Bowie, Maryland. Mr. Bailey
was vague as to any details in this matter and would not furnish any
information concerning his residence or the place from which he was
making his telephone call. Wo additional pertinent information in
this matter was furnished by Mr. Bailey.

The above is being furnished to you for your information and
assistance in the captioned matter. No investigation is being conducted
by this Bureau concerning this matter.

Tolson
CaddsS
Nichols

Laughlin
gl Se a Ec S.
Vinterrowd __
Tele. Rm. ——
pas I.

Ce ek a%

TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

Valparaiso, March h, 1953

Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington
United States, North America

Subject: Individual who may possibly be connected with
(CD flying saucers. _

Dear Sir:

In writing to you who directs the influential Office of
Investigation which has international connections, I would like to
state the following:

1°-a) T had the opportunity to read in a "Chilean" police magazine, in
the section entitled, "Perfect Escapes," the escape of Dr. LINKE

(42 years old, widower, who sometime in 1950, in London, was arrested
on the 8th floor of the Building of Departments (7). The reason for
his detention was his possible collaboration with VLADIMIR VLASAV in
"divulging to foreign govermments English aviation secrets". )

In his attempt to get away, which occurred between ]; and 5
in the morning, a strange thing happened, “when the police came near
the 8th floor, the whole building became dark, the elevators stopped
and the telephones and loudspeakers became silent. When the police
arrived on the 8th floor with their flash lights, they immediately
went off. (Nevertheless, he was arrested at 6 A.M.).

b) Dr. LINKE escaped from the Kent Prison (a few days after
he was imprisoned) and according to statements of the author of the
article, which should be accurate, he did it in the following manner:
Between 12 midnight and 2 A.M., in rainy weather, Dr. JULIUS LINKE
disappeared under the following circumstances: the electricity, elevators,
telephones, and flash lights of the guards would not function.

TRANSLATED BY:

pr APOSTOL: bad ac

) March 12, 1953 %
ay F:

a>

ane

According to the article, among other statements of the
guards, was the fact that between midnight and 2 o'clock rain fell
in torrents and for a few moments there was complete darkness because
the lights went off. A guard tried to ring the alarm which would set
off the siren, and it did not work; he yelled to another guard but did
not get an answer, and his voice sounded very "distant"; although he
tried to warn his chiefs personally, he could not run or even walk
fast (he had to walk slowly).

2°),—-A little before the fall of Berlin, "the motors of autos and
trucks stopped unexpectedly," without any apparent explanation; after
one hour they succeeded in starting them again. During this occasion
it was commented that "something rare occurred in the atmosphere."

3° — About three months ago I read in a local newspger about the "flying
saucers," with the reservation that perhaps they would be speculating
about the flying saucers; however, it is undeniable that they were
telling the truth. It stated that, according to the article from a

news agency, an officer and his associate who were flying a plane saw

a "flying saucer." They followed it, but it, as in previous cases,
whirled about and could not be reached. However, the flying saucer flew
very high and then it began a rapid descent; it stopped a few seconds

on the officer's airplane, paralizing the motors of the airplane,
(according to statements of the aviators). tater the disk flew very
high and was lot from view, and the airplane motors began working.

Any inference from the above statements — according to my
way of thinking, -- that these facts may appear to be imaginary, is
dispelled by the statements of various witnesses on each occasion, and
therefore they are "scientific" facts.

If on two occasions paralization of electricity occurred, as
well as what we may call paralization of vital forces (in the case of
the guards), and in said cases "the interference of one person,"

Dr. LINKE, is inferred, why could not Dr. LINKE also be connected with
the other two cases (2 and 3)?

It may be that all this is not in any way related and that the
flying saucers are nothing more than what has been given as a scientific
explanation, but the "strange force," about which our ancestors have not
spoken to us in history, we cannot deny.

I submit for your full consideration all I have said, my
only motive being "human interest for human affairs" and my desire for
the progress of humanity, for a good future full of dignity and
cosmic evolution.

Without further particulars, I remain
Sincerely yours,

S/ FRANCISCO TRONCOSO SILVA
Casilla 1857. Valparaiso
Chile, South America

Please acknowledge receipt of this letter.

March 23, 1953

aeCORDEL

INDEXED / Sa 7A 7

\ \
ur. Francisco \KroncosoXGilva
Castila 1857 i.
Valparatso, Chile

Dear Mr. Proncoso’:

I want to take this opportunity to thank
you for your letter of March 4, 1953.

The tnterest which prompted you to make
your observations avatiable to me is sincerely ap-
prectated. Since your communication may be of in=
terest to another governmental agency, I am taking
the liberty of forwarding a copy of it to The Hon-
orable, The Secretary of the Atr Force, The Penta~
gon, Washington 25, Ds. C.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

ce=Foreign Liaison Desk, with copy of incoming.
copy by form, Secretary of the Air Force.
gakae og Aid

a! "

Belmont
Clegg
Glavin.
Harbo
Rosen
Tracy
Gearty — 5 <i
Mohr —_____ | Beep Pre My &
Winterrowd — f j Wis ~ FEI
Tele. Room —
Holloman ——
Sizoo

Miss Gandy —

fas ee
MAIR k i. vi
; i of: MAILED 93
PO Apo donge—Malkep 32”

aA
iF
j

“

wath
STANDARD FORM NO, 64

Office Memorandum e UNITED STA GOVERNMENT

TO DIREGTOR, FBI patg; 4/28/53

SUBJECT: UNIDEN Tl FLEBAFLYI NG OBJECT OBSERVED
11:30 AM, APRIL. 8, 19535<FORT
BUCHANAN, PUERT RICO:

j J Alf

SAC, SAN JUAN (65-330)

On 4/27/53 a report was received from Major BRADFORD P. SHUMAN,
Wing Intelligence Officer, Ramey Air Force Base, Puerto ico.
The substence of this report is as follows:

Five persons observed an unidentified flying object at 11:30

AM on 4/8/53 at Fort Suchanean, Puerto Rico. Statements were
taken from all of the witnesses, among whom were three Captains
and a Sergeant of the U. S. Army, as well as a civilian. fhey
described the object as a bright star or a bright ball of fire
at a great height, and it was moving rapidly eat the time it was
observed.

All of the witnesses observed one RB 36 aircraft which had been
flying in the area at the time of the sighting of this unidenti-
fied object. The Wing Intelligence Officer reported that there
were two RB 36 aircraft in the area at this time. ‘These aircraft
were reported to be flying at 12,000 and 21,000 feet respectively.
None of the persons: from whom stetenents were taken were able to
accurately describe the object, other than by the statements set
forth above.

This matter is being reported to the Bureau for information
purposes,

CLOSED.

FDO'B:MD

Tolson —___

TS.

Near

and I

letter

of the
letter

contained in

Jy

f Pobert A a dle a
26 Olcott Strdéet

Watertown,

Vassachusetts

Se PDaviesone

lr have received your letter of May 9, IL!

5
ant to. thank you

wour letter available to me.

Tnasmuch as the information contained in

for making the information

O59
7 <

Jy

your

comes within the furisdiction of the Department
A

n

Air Force, I have furnished a copy o/

to that

Sincerely yours,

= —

negative re Mrs... Robert H.

your
Denartment for appropriate attentions,

Davissone

RECORDED - 99 rae
ECO [a OF Be GE of - 23 “2.

8

wren

Belmont ——
Clegg —_—-
Glavin—___-

Harbo —__

eMohry 4
Cy Vinterrowd |
Tele. Room —
Holloman ——
Sizes ___—
Miss Gandy

Date: May 14, 1953

aor!

To: Director of Special Investigations 7)
The Inspector General G\\
Department of the Air Force yi
The Pentagon
Washington 25, Ds O.

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

. ee
Subject: . FLYING SAUCERS

There is atteched for your information and assistence
in this matter a copy of a self-explanatory letter dated Mey 9, 1953,
received by this Bureau from Mrs. Robert H. Davisson, 26 Olcott Street,
Watertown, Massachusetts. Mrs. Davisson's letter has been acknowledged
by this Bureau and she has been informed that a copy of her letter
has been referred to the Department of the Air Force for appropriate

attention.

Attachment

cc ~ 1 - Boston (Under Separate Cover) (Attachment) (FOR INFO)

Bureau files are negative re Mrs.

¢

Tolson

Ladd

Nichols —__
Belmont ——
Clegg ————
Glavin

Harbo ——____
Rosen

Tracy

Gearty -

Mohr —_ -__—_
Vinterrowd —
Tele. Room —
Holloman —

Sizoo )

Follow-up.
NOTE: Although inquiries loser | suc

3. foo at
President
frand Hotel
Mackinae Island, Michigan

Dear Mr. Wood fill:

Your letter of June 30, 1953, has been
received in Mr. Hoover's absence from the city, and
I an taking the liberty of acknowledging its receipt.

Your communication will be brought to hie
attention promptly following his return to Washington.

Sincerely yours,

Helen W. Gandy
Secretary

cce-Detroit, with cop of lintonthg.

ce-Cincinnati, with cobyop incoming.

ATTENTION SAC: You are instructed to thoroughly-
check your files in an effort to determine wheth@y =
or not the Mr. Stevenson referred to by correspotMens
has been interviewed by an Agent of your office, mYou
should also furnish the Bureau any information Whichm
might assist in clarifying the story set forth by- ww,
Woodfill. Sulet results no later than July PO FL G53,
under caption "Mr. W. S. Wood fill, President, Grand =

Hotel, Mackinac Island, Fi, ase Researcna (Crime = = + St Lae

Records).’

i
_105er gill po , Bagornel
Mone phehome¥a c me ni]

are being handled by the Air Force. at this p Fes eft =OMY4
time, it is believed desirable to check the sourGenS !

of this rumor and following receipt of reply Proa
Cincinnati, refer correspondent '3: inquiry tothe ‘Atr2Forces
In 1939 and again in 1940 Woodfill invited the Direc#or

to attend the Michigan Hotel Convention, and-both inwitations
were declined. An informant reported that igri FA5 =

, gambling on Mackinac ,Island.1 Brfecerved for the Grand

Hotel. COMM —

MAILED 27

a HPL: pre re | SUL TO 1993 VA
Y | : i

\

WORLD’S MACKINAC ISLAND + MICHIGAN

W.S.Wooprite President

story

resumed to been conse

it is said there, anc

representatives came to consult wi
types O Une sé f in F saucers

1ow the farmer of various

the

y your revresentat ives,

story goes, by

Mars, and that

now
civilization

}

knowle > as reported

<=

that the farmer is a Mr Stevenson,

com unity, prosperous, conservative

fy)

} :

U. S. DEP

COMMUNICAT IONS SECTION

ii ¢ snr nr
JUL & Uh“
wre

TELETYPE

FBI“ATLANTA 7-8-5353 4dr O-2 AM ge |
DIRECTOR, FBI URGENT Me A.

¥

FLYING SAUCERS, MR, TOM MCRAE, - ATLANTA CONSTITUTION-~ rim is

COMPLAINANT, THREE FORTYFIVE AM THIS DATE MCRAE TELEPHONICALLY FURNISHED
FOLLOWING -FANTASTIC TALE - ASSURING THAT NEITHER HE NOR ANY MEMBER
OF -§CONSTITUTION- STAFF HAD BEEN DRINKING BUT HAD WITNESSED THIS
STORY, MCRAE STATED EDWARD E. WATERS, ONE EIGHT FIVE FIVE PEACHTREE
RD, NE, TELE ELGIN NINE FIVE SIX TWO, CALLED ON HIM AT NEWSPAPER OFFICE

| STATING HE ANDTWO OTHER COMPANIONS WHILE TRAVELING IN CAR ON BANK-

| HEAD HIGHWAY ABOUT MABLETON, GA. ENCOUNTERED THREE SMALL ANIMALS WHICH
THEY BELIEVED HAD LANDED FROM SOME PLACE IN FLYING SAUCER. WATERS
INFORMED MCRAE THAT AS THEY APPROACHED THE THREE OBJECTS SSTARTING

‘| MAKING THEIR WAY BACK TO WHAT HE BELIEVED A FLYING SAUCER, THAT TWO

\ OF THE ANIMALS ESCAPED IN SAUCER BUT THIRD WAS KILLED WHEN HIT BY THEIR

| AUTOMOBILE, WATERS DISPLAYED OBJECT OR ANIMAL TO MCRAE AT NEWSPAPER

OFFICE, MCRAE STATED ANIMAL DID NOT RESEMBLE ANYTHING HE HAD EVER
SEEN BEFORE BUT LOOKED AS IF IT BELONGED TO MONKEY FAMILY. ANIMAL

| MEASURED AND FOUND TO BE APPROXIMATELY TWENTYONE INCHES LONG, HAD

) RATHER POINTED HEAD, LARGE EARS AND SKIN WAS PINKISH. DUE TO

| EARLY MORNING HOUR SECORDED- ag TO LOCATE led] EXAMINE

| ANIMAL BUT DID HAVE ONE OF LEADING Sa CLTY EXANIBE IT.
Fy JUL 2@ 19
a -103 12 15

O83 2 s a Waal é

MCRAE STATES VETERINARIAN WOULD NOT COMMIT HIMSELF BUT VET POINTED
OUT HAD NEVER SEEN ANIMAL IN MONKEY FAMILY WITHOUT HAIR AS THIS ONE
NOR HAD EVER NOTED A DEAD ANIMAL THAT DID NOT TURN PALE AT DEATH.

| VETERINARIAN STATED ANIMAL HAD HAD A TAIL BUT SAME WAS MISSING AND WHEN

| QUESTIONING WATERS ABOUT SAME WATERS SEEMED SOMEWHAT SURPRISED BUT STATH

IT WAS POSSIBLY CUT OFF IN ACCIDENT, MCRAE ADVISED WHERE WAS BLOOD

AROUND MOUTH OF ANIMAL CAUSED BY ACCIDENT WHICH RESEMBLED HUMAN BLOOD

MCRAE FIRST THOUVHT WATERS POSSIBLY TRYING TO PULL PUBLICITY GAG DUE

TO RECENT NEWSPAPER STORIES BUT BELIEVED HAD THIS BEEN HIS MOTIVE WATER

WOULD HAVE TIMED HIS VISIT BETTER AS THEY WERE “ABLE TO PRINT ANYTHING

AFTER MIDNIGHT. MCRAE STATED NEWSPAPER WOULD POSSIBLY RUN STORY ON

ABOVE FACTS TODAY, ATLANTA INDICES NEGATIVE ON WATERS. ABOVE

FURNISHED IN VIEW OF POSSIBLE PUBLICITY THIS DATE. NO INVESTIGATION

BEING CONDUCTED THIS OFFICE UCAB. MATTER REFERRED TO OSI OFFICE NINE
| AM EST TODAY,

CARSON

END AND ACK

LINE X SIX SHUD LAST THREE WORDS BE WHXX THERE WAS BLOOD

YES THANKS ALSO LINE 10 SHUD IT BE THEY WERE UNABLE

YES OK TY

12-11 PM OK FBI WA RD

V

Wee PLO eo,
- 4
GQ
SAUCERS, MR, TOM MCRAE, - ATLANTA CONSTITUTION= REPORTER,
THREE FORTYFIVE AM THIS DATE MCRAE TELEPHONICALLY FURD
TASTIC TALE - ASSURING THAT NEITHER HE NOR ANY MEMBER
or -BcoNSTITUTION- STAFF
MCRAE STATED EDWARD

NINE FIVE SIX TWO, CALLED ON

OTHER COMPANIONS WHILE TRAVELING IN

{EAD HIGHWAY ABOUT MABLETON, GA. ENCOUNTERED THREE SMALL NIMAL

nS TN ALS SS Rf aaah Led Sa? Soe

THEY BELIEVED HAD LANDED ¢0M SOME. PLACE IN FLYING SAUCER.

MCRAE THAT AS THEY APPROACHED THE THREE OBJECTS SST

EIR WAY BACK TO WHAT

QF THE ANIMALS ESCAPED IN

AUTOMOBILE. WATERS DISPLAYED

OFFICE, MCRAE STATED ANIMAL D NOT RESEMBLE ANYTHING HE

SEEN BEFORE BUT LOOKED AS [. BELONGED TO MONKEY FAMILY ANIMAL

MEASURED AND FOUND TO BE APPROXIMATE TWENTYONE INCHES LONG, HAD
HEAD, LARGE EARS AND SKIN WAS PINKISH. DUE TO

MORNING HOUR MCRAE

ANIMAL BUT DID HAVE ONE OF LEADIN ETERINARIANS THIS CITY EXAMINE IT.

LNLNA PINS ai

4

MCRAE STATES VETERINARIAN WOULD NOT COMMIT HIMSELF BUT VET POINTED

OUT HAD NEVER SEEN ANIMAL IN MONKEY FAMILY WITHOUT HAIR AS THIS ONE

NOR HAD EVER NOTED A DEAD ANIMAL THAT DID NOT TURN PALE AT DEATH.
ETERINARIAN STATED ANIMAL MAD HAD A TAIL BUT SAME WAS MISSING AND WHEN

QUESTIONING WATERS ABOUT SAME WATERS SEEMED SOMEWHAT SURPRISED BUT STATE

IT WAS POSSIBLY CUT OFF IN ACCIDENT, MCRAE ADVISED @HERE WAS BLOOD

AROUND MOUTH OF ANIMAL CAUSED BY ACCIDENT WHICH RESEMBLED HUMAN BLOOD

MCRAE FIRST THOUVHT WATERS POSSIBLY TRYING TO PULL PUBLICITY GAC DUE

a.

TO RECENT NEWSPAPER STORIES BUT BELIEVED HAD THIS BEEN HIS MOTIVE WATER

WOULD HAVE TIMED HIS VISIT BETTER AS THEY WEREVABLE TO PRINT ANYTHING

AFTER MIDNIGHT, MCRAE STATED NEWSPAPER WOULD POSS IBLY RUN STORY ON
|ABOVE FACTS TODAY, ATLANTA INDICES NEGATIVE ON WATERS. ABOVE
FURNISHED IN VIEW OF POSSIBLE PUBLICITY THIS DATE, NO INVESTIGATION
BEING CONDUCTED THIS OFFICE UCAB, MATTER REFERRED TO OSI OFFICE NINE

AM EST TODAY,

END AND ACK

LINE X SIX SHUD LAST THREE WORDS BE WHXX THERE WAS BLOOD
YES THANKS ALSO LINE 10 SHUD IT BE THEY WERE UNABLE
YES OK TU

12-11 PM OK FBI WA RD

V

(SAUCER) |
ATLANTAe=TWO BARBERS AND A BUTCHER PRODUCED A 21-IWCH LONG "CREATURES
TODAY TO BACK UP THEIR TALE THAT THRY HAD SEEN A FLYING SAUCER AND THRE
ELUSIVE LITTLE MEN AFTER CONSUMING ONE BEER APIECE
AN ANATOMY PROFESSOR SAID, HOWEVER, THAT THE CORPSE THE EARTH ME
SUSPECTED WAS FROM OUTER SPACE APPEARED TO BE A MONKEY.
THE MEN WERE CONVINCED iT WAS FROM OUT OF THIS WORLD. THEY SAID
THEY RAN INTO IT WITH THEIR AUTOMOBILE WHILE DRIVING ON A HIGHWAY NEAR
HERE LAST NIGHT,
“RIGHT THERE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE HIGHWAY WAS THIS THING, GLOWING
RED ALL OVER.* SAID EDWARD WATTERS, 28-YEAR-OLD BARBER.: IT LO OKED
LIKE A FLYING. SAUCER PICTURE HE HAD SEEN IN A SCIENCE MAGAZINE, HE SAID.
*THREE LITTLE MEN WERE RUNNING FOR IT," WATTERS CONTENUED, “THEY
ALL JUMPED. TWO OF THEM MADE IT, I HIT THE OTHER ONE.
WATTERS SAID THE MACHINE SOON ROSE INTO THE AIR AND ZOOMED AWAY,

MR WAS NOT MORE THAN WAIST HIGH AND ABOUT HALF AS WIDE As
4
WATTERS® COMPANIONS, ARNOLD PAYNE, A aoe AND THOMAS WILSON,

BARBER, TOLD THE SAME STORY, WATTERS SAID THE INCIDENT OCCURRED gout

MIDNIGHT AFTER THEY HAD CONSUMED ONE BEER APIECE.
DR. We As MICKLE, ANATOMY PROFESSOR AT EMROY UNIVERS ITY EXAMINED

THE ANIMAL, WHICH MAD BECOME A VICTIM OF AN AUTOMOBILE ACCEDENT,
MICKLE SAID IT LOOKED LIKE A MEMBER OF THE *RHESUS NOnKEY FAMILY,"
ALTHOUGH IT MAD NO HAIR,
; IF IT'S A CREATURE FROM OUTER SPACE, THEY NAVEN'T INVENTED ANYTHING
| NEWS.” 5

, ’"SATTERS DECIDED ‘TO FREEZE THE THING WITH DRY ICE AND PUT IT,
ON DISPLAY.

7/8--N6535P pes ES 5 inet ern Fe

Pur Ng

af CORDED-12m
|NDEXED-124

EX-103

Madd Se.
Nichols
Belmont ——
Clegg —
Glavin—____
Harbo —____
Rosen —___
Tracy

Gearty —__
Mohr -
Vinterrowd —
Tele. Room
Holloman —~—
Sizeo —___
Miss Gandy —

DAT Es July 10, 1953

ector of Special

Inspector General
The Pentagon
ashington 25, D.

Tohn kadgar Hoover, Director
ederal Bureau of Investigation

FLY ING Si CER

The following informGtion was furnished to the
Atlanta “ield Office of this Bureau ct 3:40 A,¢,. ON
July 8, 1953, by Mre TometcRae, “Atlanta Constitution”
reportere Mrs McRae stated Nr. Sdword ££, VYeters, 1855
Peach free Rood, Northeast, Atlantc, Georgia, telephone
number Zlgin 9562, contacted Aim et the office of the
"htlanta Constitution” and advised as follows;

According to Waters, he and two other companions,
while travelling tn on Gu tomobile on Bénkhead Highway tn
the vicinity of Mableton, Georgia, encountered three small
animals which they believed had landed from a flytng Saucer.
raters advised as he and his companion Gpproached, the three
onimals started moking.their way back to what was believed
to be a flying saucer. According to ters, two of the
animals escaped in the flying saucer but the third was
killed when hit by the automobile in which YWaters and his
companions were riding.

tcoording to MeRee, “eters displayed the animel

wiich hed been killed to him at the “Atlanta Constitution”
newspaper office. Wekae steted the anincl did not resemble
anything he hed ever seen before but ttplapked as though
it belonged to the monkey family. Aceording to MeRce, the
onim@l was approrimetely 21 inches long, Aga & rather ointed
head, large ears and pinkish sWif."*NeRge stéted because of
the early morning hour he was unable to Loccte a scientist
to eromine the cnimal, but he didchave on@ WY the leading
veterinarians of Atlanta, Georgia, examine tt.

ane OE ARTI

COMM — FBI

MAILED 27

FHM:d jb |

4 f

McRee cdvised the veteriucrien would not
commit himself but the veterinerian pointed out he had
never seen Gn animal in the. monkey family without hair
nor had he ever seen a dead Gnimal that did not turn
pale at death. According to UckGe, the veterinerian
atated the animal's tail wos missing and that when he
had questioned Tatere about the missing teil Voters had
seemed somewhat surprised and indicated it hed possibly
been cut off in the Gecident. McRGe stated there wus
blood Ground the mouth of the animcl, which resembled
human blood.

At the time McRae furnished the ebove infornua-
tion to the Atlante Office of this Bureau, he stcted
neither he nor any menber of the "Atlanta Constitution"
newspaper staff had been drinking but had witnessed the
above. McRae stated he first thought Waters. had tried
to pull @ publicity gag in this matters however, it wos
McRae's opinion if this had been Waters’ motive, Voters
would have timed his visit to the newspaper office better
es the newspaper was unable to print Gnything on the story

after midnight. MeRGe informed the Atlanta Office of this
Bureau the “Atlanta Constitution” newspaper would probably
run co story concerning the information set forth above.

It ts noted your office was telephontecally con-
tected on the morning of July 9, 1953, by @ Licison rep-
resentative of this Bureau concerning the Gbove actter.

The above is furnished for your information Gnd no investi-
gation is being conducted in this motter by this Burecu.

MANGO 19

Mr. BW. S. Woodfill
President

Grand Hotel

Mackinac Island, Michigan

Dear Mr. Woodfili: ( P= FSD TY 335

RECONYSY your letter of June 30, 1953, was brought
to my attention upon my return to the city, and I
want to thank you for making this information available
to me.

I wish to advise that the situation which
you discuss in your letter does not pertain to any
matter within the investigative jurisdiction of the
FBI. Obviously, therefore, no representative of this
Bureau conducted the interview with Mr. Stevenson which
you describe relative to "flying saucers.”

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover

JUL 28 1953 Director

A

Tolson —____
Ladd

Nichols —__
Belmont ———
Clegg

Glavin. eG
Harbo —_____
Rosen

Tracy

Gearty ___
Mohr —-—__
Winterrowd —
Tele. Room —
Holloman ——
Sizoo

Miss Gandy —

Cincinnati aad
Reurlet July 15, 1953. PA
NOTE: Mr. Woodfill's letter of June 305.1952, stated thet
a farmer named Stevenson of Circleville, Ohio, mad reportedly
seen a flying saucer und had been subsequent y interviewed
on the matter by representative of the FBI; TMP Wood fill
desired to iknow if this were true. OD

Bulet of) July .9, 19532, to him-wos an "in-gbsence" reply,
containing.a noté fonkSac, Cincinnati to deterRine the basis
of the rumor/siincinnati letter of July 15, £953, indicates
that Stevenson. was taterviewed on July:l4, D9pg3 at that time
Stevenson indicated thut he hud been interviewed on the
subject by one Jatk M, Grant of Columms, Ohio, who made the
statement that he (Grant) had once been "checked" by the FBI.
Cincinnati files reflect no prior interview with the farmer,
who is cio Get ae Rural Route 2, Circleville, Ohio.

sf
AN

ULL: dep Ab : yer

ies WP A}

oN

STANDARD FORM NO, 64 4h ~
4

P Office Mer andum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO 2 DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: July 15, 1953

K mow : SAC, CINCINNATI (105-0)

é

MR. W. S¢“NOODFILL, President
Grand Hotel

Mackinac Island, Michigan
RESEARCH - CRIME RECORDS

ReBulet dated 7-9-53.

Sheriff CHARLES RADCL}FR, Circleville, Pickaway County,
Ohio, advised he is cognizant of 4“flying saucer" report made by Mr. BRUCE
STEVENSON, Rural Route 2, Circlevillé; Oni6sA¢cording to Sheriff RADCLIFF,
Mr. STEVENSON reported that a saucer-shaped object had landed on his farm
some time ago, and this report eventually reached local newspapers. In
June, 1953, an individual discussed the matter with Mr. STEVENSON. Sheriff
RADCLIFF advised that this persondid not, to his knowledge, represent
himself to be an FBI Agent. The Sheriff further declared that he has known
BRUCE STEVENSON all his life and that he is a prosperous, well-respected
local farmer, who is considered trustworthy.

Mr, BRUDE STEVENSON, Rural Route 2, was interviewed 7-1)-53
at. which time he stated that shortly after he received some publicity regard-
ing his report of sighting a saucer-shaped object, he was visited by one
JACK er, who gave his address as Post Office Box 5112, Tri-Village
Station, Columbus, Ohio. According to Mr. STEVENSON, GRANT told him he was
a salesman of television antennas, and that for over six years he had
been pursuing the hobby of investigating "flying saucer" reports. He
emphasized that he had no official connection with any part of the Govern-
ment, but stated that he had once been "checked" by the FBI. Mr. STEVENSON
declared that GRANT showed him pictures of "flying saucers" and told him he
was writing a book on the subject, which would be published soon.

A search of the Cincinnati indices revealed no information
identifiable with either BRUCE STEVENSON or JACK W. GRANT,
DOE :VD

ANSD

2 STANDARD Fon a, 64

Office Menranduin * UNITED @.. GOVERNMENT

TO +: Director, FBI oS pate: 4/12/5h

SAC, Newark (62-0)

INFORMATION REGARDING NEW
PRINCIPLES OB*AERO-DYNAMICS
ALOIS PIVEC = INFORMANT

Enclosed herewith are photostats of parts of two letters
furnished by ALOIS PIVEC and his wife, OLGA PIVEC, both of 16.
Hallstead Street, Hast Orange, NJe.

Both photostats are in German and concern the development
of a new principle in aero-dynamics and alleged attempts by the
Communists in Austria to obtain this information.

There is also enclosed a blind memo, setting forth the
summary of the information in the letters and the circumstances
under which they were obtained.

This information is being furnished to the Bureau for
whatever action is deemed appropriate.

The indices of the Newark Office are negative regarding
ALOIS PIVEC, OLGA PIVEC and AROLPH DORNIG.

Encls. (7)

ce NK 1100-17007

REGISTERED MAIL

TRANSLATION FROM GERMAN

12-21-53

Mr. ALOIS PIWETZ
16 Halsted Str.
New Jersey, U. S. A.

Dear Mr. PIWETZ,

Your brother will probably have communicated with you about
me as we became acquainted with each other at a construction job. I
told him a few things about inventions or utilization. Dear Mr. PIWETZ,
be not angry with me because I am now turning to youe I hesitated such
a long time as my wife does not wish to go abroad. Enclosed I am
sending you 2 inventions, that is, ideas and I leave it to your own
power of judgment whether one or both, or none of these inventions
is suitable. If one seems to be profitable to you, you should apply
for a patent in your own name as the best possible way and enter for me
and for yourself 5% each of the net profit and 10% for your brother.
I am giving you entirely a free hand, as you will undoubtedly try to
attain the greatest possible profit.

And now, dear Mr. PIWETZ, I am taking the liberty of telling
you something about an invention which the entire world wants to have.
(I am only writing the most important facts.) Before the war I intended
to make a toy, something which flies, and purely accidentally I discovered
a hitherto unknown aerodynamic law. I experimented further. I improved
and informed several cemrades. They were enthused and emigrated to
South America. There they tried it on their own responsibility. People
were killed and they failed to perfect the incomplete invention. They
approached me again. As they were only artisans, these flying machines
were, of course, built primitively. The first experiments to fly with
a motorcycle motor attained the result of 250-300 km. Not bad for the
years 1938-391 With a powerful motor they then flew 2600-2800 kn.

(hour kilometers).

After the war they came to me again and told me about their
misfortune, that about 60% of all flights had been fatal. To make
it very clear, they wanted to find out how I construct my flying
apparatuses, because with a device, which endangers lives,they could
not, of course, appear before the public, and, therefore, all this is
still, so to speak, a private secret. In America, this flying
machine is called "flying saucer," and since among my former comrades
@ quarrel broke out and they distrust each other and none of them has
the intelligence, which this invention demands, they have not progressed
over there.

I imagine that they have stubbornly adhered to some construction,
that is, become involved in it that they cannot advance. It has taken
me years to reach the point where I can already say with respect to the
construction plan that now the machine issafe for flying. Thereby I
am losing, however, some speed, but, in return for it, safety is secured
and this is the main thing. This machine is so very simple in its
construction that, if one gives me an engineer and experts, I can build
this apparatus in 5 to 6 weeks at the most (but only experimentally
for a crew of 1 to 3 men). Then this machine attains, with an automobile
motor of 80 to 120 h.p. about 700 to 1,000 km. If a firm would exist,
which does not shun the costs, I can, because of the simple construction
of the machine, build the first machine immediately in such a manner that
it exceeds the 2000 km. limit per hour.

Because of the new aerodynamic law it is possible without
any difficulty (everything without propellers) to reach such speeds. \
Now the idea has come to me to build some kind of popular flying machine |
which is cheaper than an automobile. One does not need any
starting or landing strip and one wold have a travelling speed of
about 500 to 700 km. per hour. I believe that America would be the
most favorable place in the world for it. You will now understand that I
am very anxious to establish contact with a firm which is greatly
interested in this invention. But as I have no knowledge of English,
it is for me, from the very beginning, an affair which will come to
nothing. If you, dear Mr. PIWETZ, can start the matter, you will not
have done it in vain. I am not niggardly and besides I want to go
to the U. S. A. to realize there a still larger project for which I
need co-workers. The circular flying machines shall bring me the money
for my further future plans, for I believe popular flying machines,
accerding to my model and besides 100% safe from crash, will be a
gigantic business. I do not know the magnates over there; perhaps
HENRY FORD or an airplane factory, possibly a helicopter plant would
be interested in it.

+ 2

But I shall announce the names of my comrades only after
I have received a contract pertaining to license or gratuities and
after my arrival in the U. S. However, it must be added that I shall
not lay eut the money for the passage if some firm accepts me for the
construction of the flying machines. But in addition to all that I
need someone who lives over there and who knows the English language,
and now I am asking you, my dear Mr. PIWETZ,whether youc an
function as my manager as they say in the U. S. A. Well, you know
that the manager receives payment, and I believe that you will
enjoy working with me later on inventions when I am over there.
Incidentally I mention that I took a course as a chemist,(The "Do" -
apparatuses, later called fog - or rocket-missiles, eriginated with me
and also many other things.) I hope that you can decipher my
hieroglyphic script. Such small writing is not in my line. So that
you may see that I am not exaggerating, I declare upon oath that the
invention, known by the name of "flying saucer," is my own, that I know
the men who are building these machines in South 4merica, and that I
can construct the above-described machine myself and attain at least
2000 km.

/s/ A. DORNIG.

I hope that you will be interested init. I am awaiting
your communication very hopefully.

With friendly greetings,
Respectfully,

/s/ ADOLF DORNIG

Item #2

ADOLF DORNIG
Waidmannsdorferstr. 80
Klagenfurt - West

Dear Mr. PIVEC,

I have received your letter of 1-12, on 1-19. Many thanks
for your efforts. With joy I have taken cognizance of the fact that
you have already contacted American authorities concerning my invention.
However, I have no great hopes, because I know that with the U. S.
everything is defective, exactly as with the English. - Example:
Already a long time ago I wrote 2 or 3 letters to the U. S. authorities
at Salzburg and I was in Salzburg myself during the past year, but
everything wes in vain. - At the most, in response to my letters, some
Russian agent comes; that is all. When I wrote in Switzerland at
first to President TRUMAN and then to President EISENHOWER through an
official bureau, also everything was of no avail. In the end, always
Russian agents come. In May 1953, a big dirty pig arrived who wanted to
make me believe that he would take me in an automobile to the emigration:
office for Austrians in Switzerland. He enraged me to such an extent that
I hit him in the face with my fist. But he had also helpers and I am
not sure how it ended. I awoke,lying on the ground, and all had disappeared.
Several days ago a man approached me at my working place who only pointed
a finger upon me, saying: "You!" When I looked at him; he quickly ran
aways I could not recognize him, but seemingly he knew me. - But
the English are even more stupid. I wrote to the local city commandant's
office about my invention (just like to you) but no reply came. When
at one time I accidentally listened to "Radio Canada," I learned about
my statements. Those people said that one had finally succeeded (possibly
Scotland Yard) to obtain exact data on the German flying saucers and
that one would, therefore, establish a research station in Canada with
English experts, etc. I wondered whether the entire world had gone crazy.
I offer my invention for sale, and those people make such a noise about iti
They will never perfect the machine without my data. Well, I let you
know that I am somewhat in the bad books here; strictly speaking since 1937,
because of our eagle, also called misfortune. Our coat of arms, the bird

ef Austria, has in its claws hammer and sickle, and when I announced

in 193(7)7 in public that the communist symbols also appear on our
money, the gendarmery arrested me and told me that I was crazy. Since

I repeatedly declared that a “red dog" sits in the government in
complete secrecy, everything has failed. But that since then an
information has always been based upon the word crazy, I do not believe,
although I know that the communists have always guarded me very strictly.
Furthermore, I accidentally (relatives) discovered the fundamentals

of Russian atom physics (a law of nature, unknown to America) and,
therefore, since 1933 all my attempts te get into the U. S. A. have

been frustrated in every respect. I cannot journey to that country.
Since I (relatives) also exactly know the most secret Russian
communications methods (apparatuses) and the system, they are doing their
utmost to prevent me from establishing contact with the U. S. A.

I hardly believe that it will be possible by normal means. I shall not
place myself into an airplane again! The Americans do net know

how many Russian agents are with them. After I had written to the
Pentagon about my invention, a rejection arrived. From Salzburg I have
never received a reply. Seemingly, the English have lost my address and
when I reported to the aeons FSS that I can construct the Russian
apparatuses, I received...”

*) examiner's comment: This communication is incomplete.

ADOLPH DORNIG

On Jamary 12, 1954, ALOIS PIVEC, 16) Hallstead Street, East Orange,
NJ, appeared at the Newark Office and advised that he had received a letter
from one ADOLPH-DORNIG, Waidmannsdorferstr 80, Klagenfurt, West Austria,
on about December 20, 1953.

PIVEC stated that the letter requested him to attempt to sell
a number of inventions, which he, DORNIG, had developed. PIVEC stated that
the request was to contact Aircraft Companies and Sewing Machine Companies
in the United States and attempt to interest them in these devices.

According to PIVEC, DORNIG requested that no governmental agencies
be contacted. GE Rebates: that the inventions, which DORNIG had developed
were new type of-Sewing machine and a flying saucer. PIVEC stated that he
came to this office because he felt that the flying saucer was of some
importance in the national defense of this country. PIVEC stated that he
hes never met DORNIG but that DORNIG was given his name 'S brother,
FRITZ, who resides in Graz, Austria, and who is employed at Siemens-Halske
Belggier Gasse ll, Graz, Austria. PIVEC stated that his brother workedwith
DORNIG, at one time, and he believes that DORNIG is a chemist or some type
of engineer. PIVEC stated that the contents of the letter seemed fantastic
to him and that if the letter were not written in such an intelligent manner,
he would have doubted DORNIG'S sanity. He stated that DORNIG claims to
have sold a new principle of aero-dynamics, which made it possible to
construct a practical flying saucer and that DORNIG had developed a model
that flies without the usual hazards. According to PIVEC, the letter
continues by stating that DORNIG has been in contact with other men through-
out the world, who have been attempting to develop the saucer and that he
has been the first to win real success.

By way of eae i tties peated that he was born in the
vicinity of Leoben, Austria in 1925 and arrived in New York City on March
29, 1952 from Bremerhaven, Germany. He is employed at the Public Service
Laboratory in Maplewood, NJ. \

On January 30, 195k, OLGA PIVEC, 164 Hallstead Street, East Orange,
NJ, appeared at the Newark Office and advised that she was the wife of
ALOIS PIVEC. She stated that another letter had been received from ADOLPH
DORNIG, by her husband, ALOIS PIVEC. She stated that her hmsband did not
want to furnish the information in this letter to the FBI. She stated that
he was not aware that she was furnishing this information and wished to keep
the interview confidential.

Mrs. PIVEC stated that the letter received recently by her
husband, from DORNIG, contained information that DORNIG had been contacted
by Communists in Austria, who wished to take him to Switzerland in order
that he might further develop his new principle of aero-dynamics. According
to the letter, DORNIG has continued to refuse any offer by the Commnists
and wished PIVEC to increase his efforts to sell ee ew invention
in the United States. aad a4

Weel! 3

By way of background, OLG. advised that she was born of
German parents in South Russia:and at the time of the German invasion of
Russia, during World War IT, she and her family were resettled in Germany.
After the war, she married ALOTS > PEVEC and came to the United States with
hin. f ’

»)

4 asA'/
Qa A

Tolson —___
Ladd
Nichols __—
Belmont
Clegg seins
Glavin———__.
Harbo ——___
Rosen —_—
Tracy —___—_
Mohr

Trotter ____
Winterrowd __

PORE D-20

May 18, 1954

Director of Speetal Investigations
The Inspector General

Department of the Air Force

The Pentagon

Washington 25, De Cs

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject; FLYING SAUCERS
MISCELLAWEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

BIS

There is attached a copy of a memorandum dated
April 12, 1954, captioned "Adolph Dornig” which contains
information furnished to the Newark office of this Bureau
by Alois Pivec and his wife, Olga Pivee, both of

143 Hallstead Street, East Orange, New Jersey. There is
also attached a translation from the German language of the
parts of the two letters furnished by, Pivee and his wife

to the Newark office.

Lhe files of this Bureau fail to reflect that
Gny tnvestigation has been conducted by this Bureau of
Adolph Dornig, Alois Pivee, er Olga Pivec. In view of
the information set forth in the attached memordndum dated
April 1&, 1954, and the translation of the parts of the
letters referred to herein, no investigation is contemplated
by this Bureau in this matter.

Agyypietent

) .
co ~ 1 - ,Records Administration Branch (Atochmth t)
. Attention: Criminal Division
(by @6uform on same date)

r

Ay

EHM: plu

Rs

Vin j eager 1]
«J i rio

| “ -

-

FEDERAL BUREAU ES
RECORDS SECTION

; ff 23, 1954

[J] Name Check Unit-Room 6523
B=] Attention
[J Service Unit- Room 6524
[J Forward to File Review |
EC Return toz é * ii
Supervisor
Room vs :

(") All References

Subversive References

CJ Main References Only

[_] Main References Only

c= TRestrict sto Locality: of — =
[_.) Breakdown [_] Buildup C_JVariations

CJ Exact Name Only

C7) Exact Spelling

[-] Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form

SU BJ ECT
Address

Localities
Birthdate & Place

Searcher
Date ~// = — Initial

FILE NUMBER SERIAL

‘\
~
hh

— -
‘
a
>

FEDERAL BUREAU \, eee:
: RECORDS SECTION

L/AS _, 1954

[“] Name Check Unit- ee 6523
ES Attention G 2.0
("1 Service alt-Rooe 6524
[1 Forward to File Review
B=)Return to 7/o. Pile eehur€xt.
Supervisor (
Room Cc

CJ All References

E] Subversive References }7 o-««

[J] Main References Only

[_] Main___ References Only

fer Restrict, £0. Locality Of ee
C_) Breakdown C_] Buildup C_JVariations

CJ Exact Name Only

(7 Exact Spelling

[-] Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form

SU BJ ECT
Address

Local ities
Birthdate & Place

eg Searcher <,
Date “74 Sinitial FZ

FILE NUMBER SERIAL

\

.
t
h
t
1)
t
%

«-
. Py HS, Pace haat

ee , 4-22
FEDERAL BUREAU \ ae
s RECORDS SECTION

[J Name Check Unit- Roge 6523
B=] Attention Lad os
[J] Service Unit-Room 6524
("1 Forward to File Review
Return to 24eeetu4 Ext.
Supervisor (/ _
Room AH TSO

CJ All References

Subversive References, //¢ <<

CJ Main References Only

C_] Main References Only

Gat Reserict to; Loced LEy-OFf a2 see
C1) Breakdown C_] Buildup C_JVariations

CJ Exact Name Only

C7 Exact Spelling

[J Check for Alphabetical Loyalty Form

SUBJ ECT
Address

Localities
Birthdate & Place

Searcher
Date 7/223 Initial Bee

FILE NUMBER SERIAL

April 27, 1954

/
—

Wiss Linda Butler

Boz 63

“Wilton, Xentueky

Dear Linda: _ ff

Thank you very much for your letter of
April 21, 1954.

Although I would like to be of assistance,
it is not possible for me to express an opinion
regarding the subject you mentioned since it does

‘not relate to a matter within the jurisdiction of the

You may desire, however, to conmnunicate
with The Honorable, The Secretary of the Air Force,
The Pentagon, Washington 25, De Cay for whatever
inforzetion he can give yote

jincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

NOTE: First name salutation is being used since the
correspondent indicates she is a seventh grade student.
She requested the Director's opinion regarding Flying Saucers.

Tolson —___
Ladd

Nichols
Belmont —__
Clegg

Glavin

Harbo

Rosen

Tracy

Gearty - ;
Mohr —
Vinterrowd —

O¥398 G3IAIBIZ¥

,

: I? eet COMM — FEIT

Miss Gandy — A rn w C {Yo4

MAILED 31 |

. _ ster
‘

«—
= ‘ -
STANDARD FORM No. 64 r : ’ |
.

Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

-

TO * Director, FBI AEE 6B RE
SAC, Cincinnati (100-0)

SUBJECT: TRUMAN BETHURUM;
YING DISCS
INFORMATION CONCERNING

(Ve On 6-7=5h, Mre, es BICKHOFF, 3721 Tappan Avenue, Cincinnati 23,
Ohio, and Mr. RALP N, 2768 Highland Avenue, Cincinnati 12, Ohio,
called at this office. Mr. EICKHOFF advised he is the operator of a beauty
salon in the Neave Building, Cincinnati, and Mr. ZIMMERMANN advised he is
President of the Zimmermann Packing Company in Cincinnati. Mr. EICKHOFF
did all the talking for the two men and he furnished the following informa~
tion:

On 6-3-5) an ad appeared in the "Cincinnati Enquirer," a newspaper of
general circulation, Cincinnati, Ohio, to the effect that on 611-5 ch a
program would be presented at Taft Auditorium, Cincinnati, Ohio, on "The
Real Flying Saucer Story." The advertisement which Mr, EICKHOFF exhibited
disclosed no sponsor for this program and it was only noted on the ad

that tickets for the program sold for $2.00 per person and would be on sale
at the Central Ticket Office in Cincinnati.

Mr. EICKHOFF advised that although he belongs to no organization
interested in flying saucers, he has been interested in this subject and
has been interested to the extent that he desired to know the sponsorship
of the program. He stated that he found out from the Central Ticket Office
that the ad had been placed by HENRY MADAY, 36) West Lewiston Avenue, )
Ferndale 20, Michigan. He advised that he telephoniedlly contacted MADAY
on 6-3-5), and MADAY stated that he was only the
hall and that he was acting on behalf of TR
HUNT WILLIAMSON. He statedethat on 6-);-5); MADAY’called him back and told
him that there had been a disagreement between MADAY, BETHURUM and
WILLIAMSON over MADAY's arrangements for the sale of tickets for the
program and the renting of the hall,

EICKHOFF advised that at this time MADAY said nothing to discredit
either BETHURUM er WILLIAMSON and indicated that their disagreement only
concerned his placing the ad in the newspaper prior to mating the tickets
for the program available in Cincinnati.

RCD :CVM

CC: Los Angeles (RM) RECORDED - 86
Indianapolis (RM) pats; ED - 86
INDEXED ~ 86
REGISTERED MAIL
ATR MATL SPECIAL DELIVERY
COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 19 1964

Letter to Director
June 8, 195)

Mr. EICKHOFF continued that ten minutes after he had talked to
MADAY on Friday; 6-1-5), he received a call from GEORGE TAMSON
and a SPEAKER, who confirmed to him that MADAY was no longer
associated with them, and who asked that EICKHOFF meet with them at a
Yluncheon at the Terrace Plaza Hotel on 6-7-5).

Mr. EICKHOFF, in explanation of his interest in this matter, ad-
vised that he had read such books as "Flying Saucers From Outer Space,"
written by DONALD E. KEHOE, retired major, U. S. Marine Corps, which book
was published by Harper's Publishers, and a book entitled "Flying
Saucers Have Landed," by GEORGE ADAMSKI, which book is published by
Werner=Lowery Company in England, and is distributed by the British
Book Center in New York City. He said that he has also heard broadcasts
by persons he considers reputable news commentators, such as WALTER
WINCHELL, FULTON LEWIS, JR., and FRANK EDWARDS, to the effect that
reliable persons have reported observing flying discs or saucers. He
said contrary to these reports, the U. S. Air Force has denied the ex~-
istence of the flying saucer and he felt that persons such as TRUMAN
BETHURUM and GEORGE HUNT WILLIAMSON, in presenting a program such as that
contemplated, were either truthful or they were frauds. He stated that
if they had a true story to tell, then he felt it was of such nature
that it should be given as wide a distribution as possible, so that the
people might learn the true facts regarding flying discs. He said,
however, if their story was not true, then the holding of such a
meeting as was contemplated would be a fraud on the general public,

He estimated that such a meeting in Cincinnati might draw two thousand
people, which, at $2.00 apiece, would result in a $,000,00 take for
the promoters.

To identify TRUMAN BETHURUM, Mr, EICKHOFF had with him two copies
of the magazine "Valor," which he stated he got from BETHURUM, this
magazine being self-identified as the "Golden Times Weekly," published
by Soul Craft Chapels, Post Office Box 192, Noblesville, Indiana. The
two issues which Mr. EICKHOFF had with him were numbers 15 and 16 of
volume 6 of the publication, the number 15 being dated 2-6-5); and
number 16 being dated 2-13-5), The number 15 issue contained an article
concerning TRUMAN BETHURUM, in which he is identified as a truck driver
from Redondo Beach, California, and it refers to an article dated
12-31-53, which appeared in the “Daily Breeze," a newspaper at Redondo
Beach, California, which allegedly contained a description of an encounter

Letter to Director
June 8, 195)

which TRUMAN BETHURUM had with a crew of assumed space explorers under
the supervision of a ravishing woman commandant in the Nevada desert.
The article also reflects that TRUMAN BETHURUM allegedly was aboard
flying saucers on eleven occasions. At the bottom of the first page
of issue number 15 there appeared in what Mr. EICKHOFF stated was the
handwriting of TRUMAN BETHURUM the statement "This is a true story, a
factual experience -— TRUMAN BETHURUM."

The above mentioned article in "Valor™ also reflected that TRUMAN
BETHURUM is 55 years of age and that his residence address is 519 North
Gertruda Avenue, Redondo Beach, California.

Mr. EICKHOFF also had with him a letter addressed to TRUMAN BETHURUM
from WILLIAM GILROY of the Saucers Research Foundation, which letter re=
flected that that organization was holding a three-day convention June h,
5 and 6, 195 at the Carthay Circle Theatre in Los Angeles, California,
and that it had invited TRUMAN BETHURUM to this convention to say a few
words concerning his experience, GILROY was identified in this letter as
business manager of Criswell Predicts Your World of Tomorrow, 1922 North
Highland, Hollywood 28, California.

Mr. EICKHOFF reiterated that he felt BETHURUM's story, if true,
should be given wide publicity, but that if the story was false, then he
should be prosecuted for fraud. He stated that he first took his in-
formation to the Air Force in thé personol uieutenant Colonel JOHN

or were re verges Air Force Base, Ohio, whom EICKHWFF visited
personaly _st_O°MAR, As home in Fairborn, Ohio, on Sunday, 6-6-5).

OFF indicated that he asked Colonel O'MARA if there were such things
as flying saucers and if BETHURUM's story could be true, and he said
O'MARA denied that there was such a thing as a flying saucer and indicated
to him that DONALD E. KEHOE, the author of "Flying Saucers in Cuter
Space" was a fraud and that information is available in Washington that
KEHOE is a fraud. He said he was advised, however, by Colonel O'MARA
that the Air Force could take no action with respect to BETHURUM or WILL-
TAMSON,

EICKHOFF continued that it was his intention to aid in the
promotion of a meeting for BETHURUM in Cincinnati. He advised that the
original meeting scheduled for June 11 had been cancelled, and that he
felt this meeting had such important information for the people as a whole
that he was going to make every effort to make the meeting one of national

Letter to Director;
June 8, 195)

significance. “He said he intended to invite to the meeting all nationally
prominent news commentators. He intended to try to get radio time to ad-
vertise the meeting but he did not wish to participate in this matter in
any way if it would violate security regulations in any manner, or if
BETHURUM and his associates were in any way fraudulent. He stated that he
so informed BETHURUM, WILLIAMSON and Mr. MANSPEAKER at the luncheon meeting
which was held at the Terrace Plaza Hotel on 6-7-5l:. They informed him
that they were not afraid of an investigation; that BETHURUM's story was
factual, and that they had no objection to EICKHOFF's advising Government
authorities regarding it.

Mr, EICKHOFF stated that his report to this office was part of his
plan to inform all the Federal agencies he thought should know about the
activities of BETHURUM. He advised that in line with his contemplated 1
plans that on jbe~eVonin of 6-7-5) there was to be another meeting at the
home of L. W°/STRINGFIELD, 7017 Britton Avenue, Cincinnati 27, Ohio, at
which meeting there would be Mr. STRINGFIELD, WILLIAMSON, MANSPEAKER,
BETHURUM, RALPH ZIMMERMANN and Mr. EICKHOFF. He said at this meeting
they would plan a method of operation and make arrangements for this
meeting of national significance. He said he intended to set the date of
the meeting far enough in advance so that if any Governmental agency
determined that there was fraud involved that agency would have sufficient
time to act prior to the holding of the meeting. He advised he intended
to keep a detailed record of all actions taken by this group, and that he
would voluntarily furnish such information to the FBI.

EICKHOFF advised that he had not known and had not met either
BETHURUM, WILLIAMSON or MANSPEAKER prior to the events described above.
He said that GEORGE HUNT WILLIAMSON identified himself as an archeologist
and a writer for the magazine "Valor," who resides in Noblesville, Indiana.

He said that MANSPEAKER, whose first name he did not know, is also
connected with "Valor" magazine in some way.

He was asked as to what interest "Valor" magazine has in BETHURUM,
and whether BETHURUM was sponsored by any other organization. He advised
that he did not know the interest of "Valor" magazine in BETHURUM, and
so far as he knew, BETHURUM was acting on his own and had no organizational
affiliations or sponsorship. He was asked as to what disposition would be
made of receipts from a large meeting and he advised that he did not know
what disposition would be made of the money. He said he understood that

Letter to Director;
June 8, 195)

BETHURUM had been on tour for some time and that the meeting scheduled
for Cincinnati originally on 6-11-5) was to be the beginning of a new
series of meetings.

The files of this office contain no information which can be
identified with THOMAS EICKHOFF, TRUMAN BETHURUM, GEORGE HUNT WILLIAMSON,
J. H. STRINGFIELD, and Lt. Col. JOHN O'MARA,

The indices reflect that by letter dated 2~7-52, Indianapolis
file 61-5, the Indianapolis Office advised the Cincinnati Office under the
caption of "Silver Shirt Legion of America, Inc.; Internal Security — X,"
that the Silver Shirt Legion of America, Inc., whose leader is WILLIAM
DUDLEY PELLEY, was at that time operating under the name ofSoul Craft
Press, with headquarters and printing facilities in Noblesville, Indiana.

With regard to RALPH ZIMMERMANN, the indices of this office reflect
that as of July, 192, he was general manager of the Zimmermann Packing
Company, a mechanical packing firm at 139-11 West Fourth St., Cincinnati.

No further action is being taken in this matter by this office,
and the foregoing is for the Bureau's information and for the information
of the Los Angeles and Indianapolis Offices.

SAC, Cincinnati June 22, 1954

RECORDED . g Director, Br (62-83894) 74 F.

Tolson

Boardman
Nichols__.____
Belmont

Glavin

Harbo
Resea__-
Tamm.

Tracy

Mohr

Winterrowd

Tele. Room___
Holloman

Miss Gandy____

TRUMAN BETHURUM;

_ FLYING DISCS

MISCELLANEOUS =~ INFORMATION CONCERNING
(ESPIONAGE )

Reurlet 6/8/54.

You are instructed to recontact Thomas Eickhoff, referred to
in your referenced letter and advise him this Bureau has no
jurisdiction concerning the investigation of matters relating
to flying dises and that the United States Air Force has such
jurisdiction. You are instructed to advise him this Bureau cannot
approve or disapprove of his activities in connection with this
matter and that the placing of this Bureau on notice as to his
activities will not exonerate him in the event he engages in any
fraudulent or criminal activities.

You are instructed to furnish the information set forth
in your referenced letter to OSI locally and to the Bureau in a
memorandum suitable for dissemination to OSI headquarters,

NOTE: Thomas Eickhoff, Cincinnati, Ohio, advised the Cincinnati
office he is interested in flying discs and has recently met several
persons who claimed to have had experiences with flying discs. He
stated he intended to assist such persons in arranging for public
meeting in Cincinnati, at which matters relating to flying discs
will be discussed and that he expects the meeting will result

in a "four thousand dollar take." He advised he believed the
experiences alleged by the persons referred to above and that those
persons would participate in the meeting. He stated he had been
advised by the Air Force that it was it's opinion claims made by

the persons referred to above concerning flying discs and their
experiences with same were fraudulent, He stated he wanted to

put all federal agencies on notice in order that they could act to
prevent the planned mecting re flying discs if it was deemed necessary
by the Government.

EHM:egp +

JUN 22 1954
MAILED 27

DIRECTOR, FBI
SAC, SEATTLE

REPORTS ON ALLEGED SIGHTING OF SUBMARINES,
PARACHUTE LANDINGS, FLASHING LIGHTS, ETC.
ESPIONAGE

Po
4 It has been the experience of this office that during this season,
from now until winter, there is received a considerable number of alleged
reports on sighting of submarines, flashing lights, parachute landings,
flying saucers, etc, in every instance when such reports are received,
the information is immediately disseminated to DIO, 13 ND, U. S. Navy;

Inasmuch as Seattle is the District Headquarters for the Intelligence OK
Agencies in the Pacific Northwest, reports received, usually from the USCG, \
concerning incidents in the state of Oregon are immediately reported to
that office as well as the Intelligence Agencies.

Many of the reports are of a nebulous type, impossible of corroborating, >)
and of doubtful authenticity. Some, by preliminary inquiry and evaluation, a 4
prove to be without foundation. However, as stated above, reports of this
type are immediately disseminated to the Intelligence Agencies without
evaluation, followed by additional information as obtained.

This office has no control of the dissemination of these reports
on a "spot" basis by the local intelligence offices to their Headquarters
in Washington, D. C. The Bureau will recall the widespread dissemination
given by the military agencies of "Radio Message March 13, 1953, interpreted
_ aay for Mobilization of Commmist Party" (SAC Letter #23, dated
3/31/53).

The purpose of this letter is to advise the Bureau that in all
instances immediate dissemination is made of all unusual incidents that
appear to have any military significance. This office also acts as a co-
ordinator on all reports to be certain that all interested agencies are
cognizant.

The Bureau may be assured that it will be kept advised of all
significant incidents as they arise but will not be bothered with every
trivial incident that occurs unless instructed.

LAD:hs 2. vas AD

ce: Portland "NOT RHOCOR DAD g
Encls. AY 87 JUL 9 1954
[As
AOC A'

INITIALS ON ORTGINAS

DIRECTOR, FBI SAC, SEATTLE
RE: REPORTS ON ALLEGED SIGHTING OF SUBMARINES, 6-18-54
PARACHUTE LANDINGS, FLASHING LIGHTS, ETC.
ESPIONAGE

OSI advises us that they have no interest whatsoever
themselves in connection with these matters and that Operations
of the Air Force doesn't even advise them. Colonel S. W. RAYNOR,
District Commander, OSI, states that there is an evaluation at
Wright-Patterson Field where the data is correlated, that the
reports are handled from the Air Force here to that point in 4
routine fashion and that OSI gives no credence whatsoever to it
because they have never had any previous experience of any kind
as to anything arising out of the situation.

There is attached hereto a copy of a communication
marked "CONFIDENTIAL" requesting data concerning the situation
as well as several recent publications, some of which are issued
by the Air Force itself. It is the opinion of Colonel RAYNOR
that the releases are a poor thing and create mass hysteria, but
he says he has nothing whatsoever to do with the situation.