TOP-SECRET

Approved for Release 2026
SIGNATURE RECORD AND COVER SHEET

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION REGISTRY
SOURCK CIA CONTROL NO.
ae LSE EG
DATE DOCUMENT RECEIVED
NUMBER OF PAGES
bik

ATTENTION: This form will be placed on top of and attached to each Top Secret document received by the Central Intele-
ligence Agency or classified Top Secret within the CIA and will remain attached to the document until such time as it
is downgraded, destroyed, or transmitted outside of CIA. Access to Top Secret matter is limited to Top Secret Control
personnel and those individuals whose official duties relate to the matter. Top Secret Control Officers who receive
and/or release the attached Top Secret material will sign this form and indicate period of custody in the left-hand
columns provided. Each individual who sees the Top Secret document will sign and indicate the date of handling in the
right-hand columns,

REFERRED TO RECES VED RELEASED SEEN BY
OFFICE SIGNATURE TIME OATE SIGNATURE AND OFFICE

Ea
eS
BE

oe

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT: When this form is detached from Top Secret material it shall be completed in the appropriate
spaces below and transmitted to Central Top Secret Control for record.

DOWNGRADED DESTROYED DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA)

BY (Signature) WITNESSED BY (Signature) BY (Signature)

FORM NO.
1 APR 85 26 use previous EDITIONS. _TOP SECRET (40)

VEMCRAMDRM FOR: Director of Coutewk Intelligence

1. A dispatch fram Prague, ©-103, dated 13 october 1555,
reported the sighting of two flying saucers or disc-lize
unconventional aircraft. én interview with Me. Efron,
one of the four observers of theese aircrat:, failed to
confirm in several reapect« the information civen in the
dispatch.

&. His observetions were Liri€e@ to sighting two
lights which Initially arcee vertically and then approached
the train and passed over head at « high altitude. se
failed to observe the body of the object anf hed no feeling
ag to whether it was round, dise-like cr even square. Nis
only reason for describing qn unconventional mature to the
object was that it rose vertically and appeared to glide in
a manner unlike any aircrait he Id previsuely seen. However,
in view of the fact that it ws ¢ that be thought the
alreraft quite high (9000 feet) and that his cbeervetions
were undoubtedly conditioned by ccnstor Mussell's revarks
that he had eeen a Plying saucer, toc auch confidence cannot
be given to his chservation. The fact that no noise vas
heard may aleo have iuflusnced his opinion on the
unconventional eharacteriatie of the chject. He also fullad
to confirm the excitewant of the train official following the
incident. It is my belief thet Birem's testimany alone could
not confirm the existence of any unegmvrentional aircraft.
However, he wae not ins position to have as good a look as
were the other wenbers of the party. A very careful
interrogation of the other sembars is in orler.

3. Two years ago, Br. Sobertecn heade@ a group which
investigated U.8. sightings ef flying saucers. This group
was able to explain almost «ll the sightings and reached
the conclusion thet these phencaens represented no threat
to the security of the U.S. Even Lf the present aightings

SUpGRCT: Flying dancers or UWreomventionel Aircraft

yheonventional atrereft. bave actually been flying arousd
the 0.3. and were the source of U.S. publie speeulatios.

4. The WAP is supporting « Project "¥" at Avre
Sipewaft Ltd. in Caamda for the developasnt ef unecnventionel
suucerelike aireraft. However, this develoguast is etill is

wed developasnt stages with tiree cr sore

very high ceiling (wp to 120,000 feet) with epends up to
1300 alles per hour, a rauge of 700 alles ead rete of ciixb
of 120,000 feet a uiuute. 4 vertical take-off characteristic
would, of course, be extremely wilunble. Project Y is being
directed by Joho Frost. Mr. Prest ia reported to have gotten
his original idea for the flying machine fron a group of
obteined fafeemation from this Oerwn group. (It ie suggented
thet you eek Cereral Semford to report on the progress of
the Air Perce project at the LAC meet ing.)

HERBERT SCOVILLE, JR.
Aasietant Director
fedentifie Intelligence