# ey i. i ORMATIM.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

OFFICE OF THE ADMINISTRATOR

Mr. Richard D. Drain
Secretary

Intelligence Advisory Committee
2430 E Street, N. W.
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Mr, Drain:

We have carefully studied the report of the Panel of
Scientific Consultants on the subject of "Unidentified
Flying Objects," which you sent this Agency on
March 13.

The conclusions of the Panel and its recommendations,
particularly in terms of public education, are of con-
siderable interest in connection with the civil defense
program. We appreciate your indicated willingness

to assist in implementing the appropriate aspects of
the Panel's report as applicable to Civil Defense, and
suggest that a conference be arranged for a full discus-
sion of the subject on a mutually satisfactory date.

Sincerely,

Val Peterson

6233 76P 7 JUN 9)

geri

Tris ees ees ee

Sr ay Cant Mapes Adis Aber .

a national defen;
- © meaning
Title (8, USG,

Normati:

13 March 1953

The Honorable

The Secretary of Defense
Department of Defense
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Mr. Secretary:

The Director of Central Intelligence has asked that you be
furnished a copy of the attached report prepared by a panel of
scientists on the subject of "Unidentified Flying Objects," This
panel was convened at the direction of General Smith, following the
récommendation of the Intelligence Advisory Committee.

The conclusions and recommendations may be of interest to you,
in that they point out certain potential dangers to national security,
which are related to the subject and suggest ways of their elimination.

Although this Agency does not consider problems arising from
sightings of "flying saucers" primarily its concern, we shall be
pleased to assist in any appropriate action that you may deem ad-

visable.

Copies of this report are also being sent to the Gecretary-of— Ad
Defense and to the Chairman, National Security Resources Board.

Sincerely yours,

RICHARD D. DRAIN
Secretary
Intelligence Advisory Committee

Enclosure

Distribution:
Orig and 1 -- Bddressee
1 -- DCI
1 -- Admin Files
1 -- AD/SI

OIC:RDD:KR (13 March 1953)

Mormation #

March 1953

The Honorable Val Peterson
Administrator, Federal Civil
Defense Administration
1930 Columbia Road, N. W.
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Peterson:

The Director of Central Intelligence has asked that you be
furnished a copy of the attached report prepared by a panel of
scientists on the subject of "Unidentified Flying Objects." This
panel was convened at the direction of General Smith, following the
recommendation of the Intelligence Advisory Committee.

The conclusions and recommendations may be of interest to you,
in that they point out certain potential dangers to national security,
which are related to the subject and suggest ways of their elimination.

Although this Agency does not consider problems arising from
sightings of "flying saucers” primarily its concern, we shall be
pleased to assist in any appropriate action that you may deem ad-
visable.

Copies of this report are also being sent to the Secretary of

D

Defense and to the Ghetrmmn—Netieonet Seeueity Resources Soarty
4 ae your's,

RICHARD D. DRAIN
Secretary
Intelligence Advisory Committee

Enclosure

Distribution:
Orig and 1 -- Bddressee
tay This matarlal contains informatl
bp/t ting the national cefons
Admin Files y
AD/SI of the espiom
Soos, 793 and 73
OIC:RDD:KR (13 March 1953)
Wy Es
Secu |

12 March 1953

Mr. C. D. Jackson

Special Assistant to the President
The White House

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Jackson:

Mr. Robert Amory, Jr., Assistant Deputy Director/Intel-
ligence, has asked me to forward to you for your information the
enclosed report “Report of the Scientific Panel on Unidentified
Flying Objects", dated January 17, 1953

This report was prepared by a panel convened in January
1953 at the direction of the former Director of Central Intelli-
gence, General Walter B. Smith, with the concurrence of the
Intelligence Advisory Committee

Copies are being transmitted to the Secretary of Defense;
the Director, Federal Civil Defense Administration; and the
Chairman, National Security Resources board.

Sincerely yours,

RICHARD D. DRAIN

Secretary '
Intelligence Advisory Committee

OIC:RDD:KR (12 March 1953)

et > DI/IL

GO D>: ak

wie

Security

mation

One copy of the attached form letter sent to each of

the following:

Mr. Robert Cutler
22k Executive Office Building

Mr, C. D. Jackson
Special Assistant to the President
The White House

Mr. James &,. Lay

Executive Secretary

National Security Council

302-A Executive Office Building

Mr. George Morgan
Psychological Strategy Board
703 Jackson Place

Mr. Tracey Barnes
Psychological Strategy Board
705 Jackson Place

Se 33

Seeuri

SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY PANEL ON
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

4 = 17 Jamary 1953

EVIDENCE PRESENTED

20

3o

Seventy-five case histories of sightings 1951 - 1952 (seletted by
ATIC as those best documented) .

ATIC Status and Progress Reports of Projest GRDUGE and Project
BLUE BOOK (code names for ATIC study ef subject).

Progress Reports of Projest STORK (eode name for Battelle Memorial
Institute contract work supporting ATIC).

Sumnary Report of Sightings at Holleman Air Force Base, New Mexico,

Report of USAF Research Center, Cambridge, Mass., Investigation of
"Green Fireball" Phenomena (Project TWINKLE).

Outline of Investigation of U.F.0.'s Proposed by Kirtland Air Force

Base (Project POUNCE).

Motion Picture Films ef sightings at Tremonton, Utah, 2 July 1952
ami Great Falls, Montana, August 1950,

Summary Report of 89 solested cases of sightinga of various
categories (Formations, Blinking lights, Hovering, ete.).

Draft of mamual: "How to Make a FLYOBRPI”, prepared at ATIC.

Chart Showing Plot of Geographic Location of Unexplained Sightings
in the United States during 1952,

Chart Showing Balloon Leunching Sites in the United States.

Charts Showing Selected Actual Balloon Flight Paths and Relation
te Reported Sightings.

Charts Showing Frequency of Reports of Sightings, 1948 « 1952.
Charts Showing Categories of Explanations of Sightings.
Kodachrome Transparencies of Polyethylene Film Balicens in Bright

Sunlight Showing High Reflectivity.

ET

TAB B
Motion picture of seagulls in bright sunlight showing high reflectivity.
Intelligence Reports Relating to 0.5.S.R. Interest in U. S. Sightings.

Samples of Official USAP Reporting Forms and Cepies of Pertinent
Air Force, Army and Navy Orders Relating to Subject.

Semple Polyethylene “Pillow” Balloon (54 inches square).

“Yeriations in Radar Ceverage”, JANP 101 (Marval illustrating umsual
operating characteristics of Service radar).

Miscellanecus official letters and foreign intelligence reports
dealing with subject.

Cepies of popular published works dealing with subject (articles
in periodicals, newspaper clippings and books).

Db

pte yy at
a ial Vee Ve

ra ~ Ty 7
atatistica!

pred.ens

NOSKSts, FULaeG

Mmissries

nding General,
i

Li

Seientific and
technical intelli-
gence

>. Stephan T

sapt. Eiverd J. Ruppelt

Mr, J, Dewey Fowrnet, Jr.

6. GAN. ZATTOR
eSiwe etd Sosade’

Chief, Operations
Staff, O/SI, CIA

pivot Group, D/I

Chief, Aerial Phenemane

Branch, ATIC, USAF

The Ethyl Corporetion

USH Fhete Interpreta-
tion laberatery,
Anacostia

US8 Photo Interprete=
tion labératery,
Anacastiia

*. ani: nat 45

abd,

Set ert ALS 1é i
tech brnicsal
Selentifie andi
teshnical intelisa
Aero Ene.

Phete interpretation

Phote interpretation

iS) it ormation
TAC-D-67

18 February 1953

INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

1. Transmitted herewith is a copy of the report (Tab A) of the
scientific panel convened as a result of the action taken by the
Intelligence Advisory Committee on 4 December (IAC-M-90, paragraph
3A) on this subject. Attached to the report are a summary of evi-
pom _—ee (Tab B) and a list of the personnel participating

Tab C).

Secretary of Defense; the Director, Federal Civil Defense Adminis-
tration; and the Chairman, National Security Resources Board for |
their information and such action as they may feel necessary. \

a
2. It is proposed to transmit copies of this report to the

3. The results of the panel's studies have moved CIA to conclude
that no National Security Council Intelligence Directive on this sub-~
ject is warranted.

4, Please inform the undersigned by 25 February 1953 if you do
not concur in the action and conclusions contained in paragraphs 2
and 3, above,

JAMES Q. REBER
Secretary

Mrs. Powell called 24 Feb and said that Mr. Amory said when approved

or release to those mentioned in paragraph 2, copies should be sent to

Rov 2O4 Bay Btfirer

Mr.,Cyutler ry
Mr**Tay

C. D. Jackson

Tracey Barnes

George Morgan

25 17

Purpose
Part I: History of Meetings of Panel
Part IIs Comments and Suggestions of Panel

General

On Lack of Danger

Air Force Reporting System
Artifacts of Extraterrestial Origin
Tremonton, Utah, Sighting
Potential Related Dangers

Geographic Locations of Unexplained
Sightings

Instrumentation to Obtain Data
Radar Problem of Mutual Interference
Unexplained Cosmic Ray Phenomena
Educational Program
Unofficial Investigating Groups
Increase in Mumber of Sightings
Report, of Panel
ldst of Personnel Concerned with Meetings
Idat of Demmentary Evidence Presented

GENERAL
The Panel Members were impressed (as have been others, includ-

4ng O/SI personnel) 4n the lack of sound data in the great mjority

of case histerics; also, in the lack of speedy followeup due primarily
to the modest size and limited facilities of the ATIC section concerned.
Among the case histeries of significant sightings discussed in detail
were the followings
_ Bellefontaine, Ohio (1 August 1952); Tremonton, Utah (2 July 1952)5
Great Falls, Montana (15 August 1950); Yaak, Montana (1 September
1952) ; Vaditngben, D. C. area (19 July 1952); and Haneda A.F.B.,
Japan (5 August 1952), Port Huron, Michigan (29 July 1952); and
Presque Isle, Maine (10 October 1952).
After review and discussion of these cases (and about 15 others,
in less detail), the Panel concluded that reasonable explanations
could be suggested for most sightings and “by deduction and scientific
method it could be induced (given additional data) that other cases
might be explained in a similar mmner". The Panel pointed out that
because of the brevity of some sightings (e.g. 2—3 seconds) and the
imbility of the witnesses to express themselves clearly (semantics) -
that conclusive explanations could not be expected for every case
reported. Furthermore, it was considered that, normally, it would
be a great waste of effort to try to. solve most of the sightings,
unless such action would benefit a training and educational program

(see below). The writings of Charles Fort were referenced to show

SE

Fon

® suse cei ®

that "strange things in the sky" had been recorded for hundreds of
years. It appeared obvious that thare was no single explanation
for a majority of the things seen. The presence of radar and astro=-
nomical specialists on the Panel proved of value at once in their
confident recognition of phenomena related to their fields. It was
apparent that specialists in such additional fields as psychology,
meteorology, asedynamics, ornithology and military air operations
would extend the ability of the Panel to recognize mny more cate-
gories of littleeknam phenomena.
ON LACK OF DANGER

The Panel concluded unanimously that there was no evidence of
a direct threat to national security in the objects sighted.
Instances of "Foo Fighters" were cited. These were unexplained
phenomena sighted by aircraft pilots during-World War II in both
European and Far East theaters of operation wherein "balls of light"
would fly near or with the aircraft and maneuver rapidly. They were
believed to be elestrostatic (similer to St. Elmo's fire) or electro-

magnetic phenomena or possibly light reflections from ice crystals

in the air, but their exact cause or nature was never defined, Both

Robertson and Alvarez had been concerned in the investigation of
these phenomena, but David T. Griggs (Professor of Geophysics at
the University of California at Los Angeles) is believed to have
been the most knowledgeable person on this subject. If the term
"flying saucers" had been popular in 1943 = 1945, these objects would
SEC
Secur

Sen

have been so labeled. It was interesting that in at least two
eases reviewed that the object sighted was categorized by Robertean
and Alvarez as probably "Foo Fighters", to date unexplained but not
dangerous; they were not happy thus to dismiss the sightings by
calling them names. It was their feeling that these phenomena are
not beyond the domain of present knowledge of physical sciences however.
AIR FORCE REPORTING SYSTH
It was the Panel’s opinion that some of the Air Force concern
over U.f.0.'s (notwithstanding Air Defense Command anxiety over fast

" padar tracks) was probably caused by public pressure. The result

 €eday 4a thet the Air Fores has instituted a fine channel for
receiving reports of Nearly anything anyone sees in the sky and
fails to understand. This has been particularly encouraged in popu-
Jar articles on this and other subjects, such as space travel and
science fiction, The result is the mass receipt of low-grade reports
which tend to overload channels of commmnication with material quite
irrelevant to hostile objects. that might some day appear. The Panel
egreed generally that this mass of poor-quality reports containing
little, if any, scientific data was of no value. Quite the opposite,
4% was possibly dangerous in having a military service foster publics
concern in "nocturnal meandering lights". The implication being,
since the interested agency was military, that these objects were
or might be potential direct threats to national security. Aesord=
ingly, the need for deemphasization made itself apparent. Comments
cn a possible educational program are emumerated below.
3 E ET
tion
Be

‘ormation

It was the opinion of Dr. Robertson that the "saucer" problem
had been found to be different in nature from the detection ani
investigation of German Vel and Ve2 guided missiles prior to their
| operational use in World War II. In this 1943-1944 intelligence
operation (CROSSBOW), there was excellent intelligence and by June

1944 there was material evidence of the existence of "hardware"

obtained from crashed vehicles in Sweden. This evidence gave the
investigating team a basis upon which to operate. The absence of any
"hardware" resulting from unexplained U.F.0. sightings lends a "wille
of=the wisp) nature to the ATIC problem. The results of their investi-
gation, to date, strongly indicate that no evidence of hostile act
or danger exists. Furthermore, the current reporting system would
have little value in the case of detection of enemy attack by conven-
tional aircraft or guided missiles; under such conditions "hardware"
would be available almost at once.
ARTIFACTS OF EXTRATIRRESTIAL ORIGIN
It was interestirig to note that none of the members of the
Panel were leath to accept that this earth might be visited by extra-
terrestrial intelligent beings of some sort, some day. What they did
not find was any evidence that related the objects sighted to spate
travelers. Mr. Fournet, in his presentation, showed how he had elin-
inated each of the known and probable causes of sightings leaving him
"extra-terrestial” as the only one remaining in many cases. Fournet’s
background as an aeronautical engineer and technical intelligence
ET
7 ormation

officer (Project Officer, BLUEBOOK for 15 months) could not be
Blighted. However, the Panel could not accept any of the cases
sighted by him because they were raw, unevaluated reports.
Terrestrial explanations of the sightings were suggested in some
cases and in others the time of sighting was so short as to cause
suspieion of visual impressions, It was noted by Dr. Goudsmit and
others that extraterrestrial artifacts, if they did exist, are no
cause for alarms rather, they are in the realm of natural phenomena
subject to scientific study, just as cosmic rays were at the time
of their discovery 20 to 30 years ago. This was an attitude in
which Dr. Robertson did not concur, as he felt that such artifacts
would be of immediate and great concern not only to the U. S. but
to all countries. (Nothing like a common threat to unite peoples)
Dr. Fage noted that present astronomical knowledge of the solar

system makes the existence of intelligent beings (as wo know the

term) elsewhere than on the earth extremely unlikely, and the
concentration of their attention by any controllable means confined
to any one continent of the earth quite preposterous.
TREONTON, UTAH, SIGHTING

This case was considered significant because of the excellent
documentary evidence in the form of Kodachrome motion picture films
(about 1600 frames). The Panel studied these films, the case history,
ATIC's interpretation, and received a briefing by representatives of
the USN Photo Interpretation laboratory on their analysis of the
film. This team had expended (at Afr Force request) approximately

SE 7
Secur tion

olle

1000 man-hours of professional and sub=professional time in the
preparation of graph plots of individual frames of the film, shawe
ing apparent and relative motion of objects and variation in their
light intensity. It was the opinion of the P.I.L. representatives
that the objects sighted were not birds, balloons or aircraft,
were "not reflections because there was no blinking while passing
through 60° of are” and were, therefore, "self@luminous". Plots of
motion and variation in light intensity of the objects were dis=
played. While the Panel Members were impressed by the evident
enthusiasn, industry and extent of effort of the P.I.L. team, they
could not accept the conclusions reached. Some of the reasons for
this were as follows:
& A semfiespherical object can readily produce a reflestion
of sunlight without "blinking" through 60° of are travel.
b. Although no data was available on the "albedo" of birds or
polyethylene balloons in bright sunlight, the apperent
motions, sizes and brightnesses of the objects were
considered strongly to suggest birds, particularly after
the Panel viewed a short film showing high reflectivity
of seagulls in bright sunlight.
P.I.L. description of the objects sighted as "circular,
bluish=white" in color would be expected in cases of
specular reflections of sunlight from convex surfaces where
the brillianée of the reflection would obscure other portions
of the object.

Securt

Objects in the Great Falls case were believed to have

probably been aircraft, and the bright lights such reflections.
There was no valid reason for the attempt to relate the objects
in the Tremonton sighting te those in the Great Falls sight-
ing. This may have been due to misunderstanding in their
directive. The objects in the Great Falle sighting are
strongly suspected of being reflections of aircraft known to
have boon in the area.

The intensity change in the Tremonton lights was too great

far acceptance of the P.I.L. hypothesis that the apparent
motion and changing intensity of the lights indicated extremely
high speed in small orbital paths.

Apparent lack of guidance of investigators by those familiar
with U.F.0. reports and explanatdons.

Analysis of light intensity of objects made from duplicate
rather than original fiim. The original film was noted to
have a mech lighter background (affecting relative brightness
of object) and the objects appeared mich less bright.

Method of obtaining data of light intensity appeared faulty
because of unsuitability of equipment and questionable
assumptions in making averages of readings.

No data had been obtained on the sensitivity of Kodachrome

film to light of various intensities using the same camera
type at the same lens openings.

k. Hand "jitter" frequencies (obtainable from early part of
Tremonton film) were not removed from the plote of the
"single pass plots" at the end of the filn.

The Panel believed strongly that the data available on this
sighting was sufficient for positive identification if further data
is obtained by photographing polyethylene "pillow" balloons released
near the site under similar weather conditions, checking bird flight
and reflection characteristics with competent ornithologists and
calculating apparent "G" forces acting upon objects from their apparent
tracks, It was cone@luded that the results of such tests would prob-
ably lead to ereditable explanations of value in an educational or
training program, However, the Panel noted that the cost in technical
manpower effort required to follow up and ‘explain every one of the
thousand or more reports received through channels each year (1,900 in
1952) could not be justified. It was felt that there will always be
sightings, for which complete data is lacking, that can only be
explained with disproportionate effort and with a long tims delay, if
at all. The long delay in explaining a sighting tends to eliminate
any intelligence value. The educational or training program should
have as a major purpose the elimination of popular feeling that every
sighting, no matter how poor the data, must be explained in detail.
Attention should be directed to the requirement among scientists that
a@ new phenomena, to be accepted, must be completely ani convincingly

documented. In other words, the burden of proof is on the sighter,

SE
S on

ole

not the explainer.

POREVETAL RELATED DANGERS
The Panel Members vere in agreement with 0/SI opinion that,
although evidence of any direct threat from these sightings was
wholly lacking, related dangers might well exist resulting from:
@. Misidentification of actual enemy artifacts by defense
personnel.
Overloading of emergency reporting chamels with "false"
information ("noise to signal ratio" analogy--Berkner) .
Subjectivity of public to mass hysteria and greater vule-
nerability to possible enemy psychological warfare.
Although not the concern of CIA, the first two of those problems
nny seriously affect the Air Defense intelligence system, and should
be studied by experts, possibly under ADC, If U.F.0.'s become dis»
credited in a reaction to the “fying saucer" scare, or if report-
ing channels are saturated with false and poorly documented reports,
our capability of detecting hostile activity will be rediiced.
Dr. Page noted that more competent screening or filtering of reported
sightings at or near the source is required, and that this can best
be accomplished by an educational program.

The map prepared by ATIC showing geographic lotations of officially

reported unexplained sightings (1952 only) was examined by the Panel.
This map showed clusters in certain strategic areas such as Los Alamos.

This might be explained on the basis of 24-hour vatchful guard and

SE ET
7 ymation
on] Sue

awareness of security measures near such locations. On the other
hand, there had been no sightings in the vicinity of sensitive
related AE establishments while there were occasionally mitiple
cases of unexplained sightings in non-strategic areas, Furthermore,
there appeared to be no logical relationship to population centers.
The Panel could find no ready explanation for these clusters, It
was noted, however, that if terrestrial artifacts were to be observed
it would be likely that they would be seen first near foreign areas
rather than central U. 38,
DUSTRUMENTATION TO OBTAIN DATA
The Panel was of the opinion that the present ATIC program to
place 100 inexpensive 35 mm. stereo camoras in the hands of various
airport control tower operators would probably produce little velu-
able data related to U.F.0.°s. However, it was recognized that
such action would tend to allay public concern in the subject until
an educational program had taken effect. It was believed that pro=
curement of these cameras was pertly the result of publie pressure
in duly 1952. With the poor results of the year-long Project
TWINKLE program of 24-hour instrumentation watch (two frames of
film showing nothing distinguishable), a widespread program of aky=
watehing would not be expected to yield mch direct data of value.
There was considerable discussion of a possible "sky patrol” by
amateur astronomers (Hynek) and by wide-angle cameras (Page). Dr. Page
and Dr, Robertson pointed out that at present a considerable fraction

SE ET
tion

& Ss ET @

of the sky is nov--and has been for many years--under surveillance
every clear nicht in several meteor ani aurora observing programs as
well as sky mapping programs at tho various locations listed below.
Although the attention of those astronomers is largely dirested
toward identified rather than unidentified objects, no case of any
striking unidentified object is known to Dr. Page or Dr. Hynek. Such

an object would most certainly be reported if found on patrol plates.

A case was cited where an astronomer refuscd to interrupt his
exposure in order to photograph an alleged sighting in a different
part of the sky. This led Dr. Hynek to say that, if a program of
watching could be an adjunct of planned astronomical programs, little
cost would be involved and that the trained astronomical personnel
might -photegraph a sighting of an unidentified objest.
The location of some of these programs and their directors are
believed to be:
a. Harvard University, Cambridge and Now Mexico (meteor patrol)—
Whipple.
Yerkes Observatory, University of ‘Chicago and Fort Davis, Texas
{several prograns)—Meinel (auroras), Kuiper (asteroids) ,
Morgan (wide angie camera).
University of Alaska, Fairbanks (aurorae)—-Elvay
Dominion Observatory, Ottawa (meteors)-—Mil Iman
Palomar Observatory, California (sky map)=-Minkowsk’

lick Observatory, California (sky map)«-Shane

SE £T

* su tan @

Tt was agreed by the Panel that no government~sponsored progran
Sf optical nationwide sky patrol 1s worthwhile at the present tine,
and that the encouragement of emateur astronomers to undertake such
© Program might have the adverse effect of over-enphasising "flying
Saucer" stories in the public mind. However, the issue of radar ‘seope
caneras for recording peculiar radar echoes vould serve several pur=
poses, including the better understanding of radar interference as
well as identification of U.F.0.'s.

This characteristic problem of radar operation wherein the pulse
signal (of approximately the same frequency) from station A may be
Picked up on the screen of station B and show as a high-speed track

or series of dots was recognized to have probably caused a mmber of
U.F.0, reports. This problem was underlined by information received
indleating ADC concern in solving this problem of signal identification
before service use of very high-speed aircraft or guided missiles
(1955=1956), Dir. Berkner believed that one ansver to this problem

was the use of a "doppler filter* in the receiving circuit. Dr, Alvarez
suggested that the problem might be better solved by the use of a
“eontrolled jitter" wherein the operator receiving “very fast tracks"
(on the order of 1000+ 10,000 m.p.h.) vould operate a cirouit which
would alter slightly his station's pulse frequency rate. If the signal
received on the screen had been caused by mtual interference with
another station, the track would now show itself at a different distance

SE
tion

from the center of the screen, if it still appeared at all. Dr. Alvarez
felt amoh a technical solution was simpler and would cost much less than

Two reported cases were examined: one at Palomr Mountain, California,
in Osteber 1949, when cosmic ray counters went "off scale for a few seconds",
apparently while a "V" of flying saucers was observed visuallys and *wo, a
series of observations by the "los Alamos Bird Watchers Association” fron
August 1950 to Jamuary 1951, when cosmic ray coincidence counters behaved
queerly. Circuit diagrams and records vere available for the latter, and
Dr. Alvarez was able quickly to point out that the recorded data were
undoubtedly due to instrumental effects that would have been recognized
as such by more experienced observers.

The implication that radioactive effects were correlated with
unidentified flying objects in these two cases was, therefore, rejected
ty the Panel.

EDUCATIONAL FROGRAM

The Panel*’s concept of a broad oducational program integrating
efforts ofall concerned agencies was that it should have two major
ainst training and "debunking".

The training aim would result in proper recognition of umeally
illuninated objects (e.g., balloons, aircraft reflections) as well as
natural phenomena (meteors, fireballs, mirages, noctilucent clouds).

Both visual and radar recognition are concerned. There would be many

SE ?
tion

od6is

levels in such education from enlisted persomel to commend and research
personnel. Relative emphasis and degree of explanation of different
programs would correspond to the categories of duty (e,ge, radar operators;
pilots; control tower operators; Ground Observer Corps personnel; and
officers and enlisted men in other eategories.) This training should
result in a marked reduction in reports caused by misidentification

and resultant confusion,

The Webunking”® aim would result in redustion in public interest
in "flying saucers" which today evokes a strong psychological reaction.
This education could be accomplished by mass media such as television,
motion pictures, and popular articles. Basis of such education would
be actual case histeries which had been puzzling at first but later
explained. As in the case of conjuring tricks, there is mech less
stimilation if the "seoret® is known, Such a program should tend to
reduce the current gullibility of tho public and consequently their
susceptibility to clever hestile propaganda. The Panel noted that the
general absence of Russian propaganda based on a subject with so many
obvious poscibilities for exploitation might indicate a possible Russian
official policy.

Members of the Panel had various suggestions related to the plan=
ning of such an educational program. It was felt strongly that
psychologists familiar with mass psychology should advise on the nature
and extent of the program. In this connection, Dr. Hadley Cantril
(Princeton University) was suggested. Cantril authored "Invasion from

Mare", -(a study in the psychology of panic, written about the famous
Orson Welles radio broadcast in 1938) and has since performed advanned
laboratory studies in the field of perception. The names of Don Marquis

(University of Michigan) and Leo Rosten were mentioned as possibly

suitable as consultant psychologisia. Also, someone familiar with
mass commmication techniques, perhaps an advertising expert, would be
helpful. Artiur Godfrey vas mentioned as possibly a valuable channel
of communication reaching’ a mass audience of certain levels. Dr. Berkner
suggested the U. S. Navy (ONR) Special Devices Center, Sands Point, L. I.,
as a potentially valuable organization to assist in such an educational
program. The teaching techniquas used by this agency for aircraft
identification during the past war was cited as an example of a similar
educational task. The Jam Handy Co. which made World War II training
films (motion picture and slide strips) was also suggested, as well as
Walt Disney, Inc. animated cartoons. Dr. Hynek suggested that the
amateur astronomers in the U. S. might be a potential source of enthusieg
astic talent "to spread the gospel". It was believed that business
clubs, high achools, colleges, and television stations would all be
pleased to cooperate in the showing of demsumentary type motion pictures
if prepared in an interesting mamer,. The use of true cases showing
first the "mystery" and then the “explanation” would be forceful.

To plan and execute such a progren,. the Panel believed was no
mean task, The current investigatory ;roup at ATIC would, of necessity,

have to be closely integrated for suppurt with respect to not only the

SE ET
y infomation

e2le

more suscey]

Ann Ty

iTIl's exp

naphnropriate

would be the photographing of "pillow balloons” at different distances
under similar weather conditions at the site.

The help of one or two psychologists and writers and a subcontractor
to produce training films would be necessary in addition. The Panel
considered that ATIC’s efforts, temporarily expanded os necessary,

could be most useful in implementing any ection taken as a result of
its recommendations. Experionce and records in ATIC would be of value
in both the public educational and service training program envisaged.
Dr. Robertson at least was of the opinion that after public gullibility
lessened and the service organizations, such as ADC, had been trained
to sift out the more readily explained spurious sightings, there would
still be a role for a very modest-sized ATIC section to cope with the
residuum of items of possible scientific intelligence value. This
section should concentrate on energetically following up (perhaps on
the advice of qualified Air Force Seientific Advisory Boerd members)
those cases which seemed to indicate the evidence of unconventional
enemy artifacts. Reports of such artifacts would be expected to
srise minly from Western outposts in far closer proximity to the
Tron Curtain than Imbbock, Texas!
UNOFFICIAL INVESTIGATING GROUPS

The Panel toek cognizance of the aristence of such groups as the
"Civilian Flying Saucer Investigators” (los Angeles) and the "Aerial
Phenomena Research Organization (Wisconsin?, It was believed that
such organizations should be watched because of their potentially

ET
tion

e230

great influence on mass thinking

de

The evparent. irresponsibility ani

for subversive purposes should be kept in mind.

DECREASE ON NUMBER OF SIGH? TINGS
fhe consensus of the Panel was, based upon the histery
subject, that the mmber of sightings could be Paasonably Gxpes

to increase again this sume.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT BOARD
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

Dear ii, Becker:

Confirming our brief conversation in the hall the other
day, I enclose a memorandum from General Maxwell on the subject.
We will advise you when we receive the report referred to in
this memo.

Sincerely,

WALTER G. WHLTMAN
Chairman

Enclosure (1)

Me. Loftus E. Becker

Deputy Director for Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
2430 E Street, N.W.

Washington 25, D. CG.

(This document may be declassified upon removal of Confidential
Attachment. )

9233768 00:- 1 J 9

f

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT BOARD

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

oy
1. At our conference here the other day with Mr, Becker, Mr.Clark
ami General Samford, it was agreed that we would evaluate the radar

phantoms from the viewpoint of the seriousness of the problem to the
Air Defense Command.

2. Inquiries made to the appropriate sections of the Air Staff did
not disclose any undue concern over the phantoms. I believe that this
is because in war and in peace the problem of identifying the vast number
ef aircraft tracks seen by the Air Defense radars is a confusing factor
of much greater magnitude. However, to make sure that we are not over~
looking any important considerations, the fir Force has asked the
Air Defense Command to study this problem and make recomendations.

3. This, then, is an interin report to you, because it may be
several weeks before the answer arrives from the Air Defense Command.

4. Naterally there is general concern about the radar phantoms and
the larger problem of the flying saucers because we are unable to
explain a sizeable percentage of the reports. However, the concensus
seems to be that a great deal of activity and study is going om in this
field which will do much to clarify the situation. The subject of
anomalous radar propagation has been umier study for some time and will
continue with appropriate emphasis. The Air Technical Intelligence
Genter, which analyzes “saucer" reports, will emphasize the radar con-
fusion aspect. It is also my feeling that, whereas formerly this was
a subject which scientific men did not wish to begome involved in, it is
now becoming "respectable" to study the subject and to discuss it publicly.
If this trend contimes and our astronomers and other scientists do turn
their talents to the problem, I am sure that the answers will be
expedited,

13 October 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director (Intelligence)
SUBJECT: Flying Saucers

1. Flying unidentified objects (Flying Saucers) have been the
subject of Air Force observation and analysis because of the possibility
that such objects might conceivably be an attack on the U.S. If they
are not, it is conceivable that the enemy might take advantage of the
confusion created by the by the Flying Saucers to use at his convenience
some air weapon against the United States.

2. Thus far Defense Department conducted research in this area
has been confined to the effort by A-2 through ATIC with the result that
an explanation has been provided on ail but 20 per cent of the total
1500 reported sightings of Flying Saucers.

3. Determination of the scientific capabilities of the USSR to
create and control Plying Saucers as a weapon against the United States
is a primary concern of the CIA/OSI. its review of existing information
does not lead to the conclusion that the saucers are USSR creatéd or
controlled. It is the view of OSI that collection of intelligence
information on the capabilities of the USSR to produce, launch, and
control Fiying Saucers end the analysis of such data as might be collected
cannot be very effective until there is adequate fundamental scientific
research launched to clarify the nature and causes of Flying Saucers and
to devise means whereby they might be instantly identified.

4. The major seiemtific intelligence problems in respect to Saucers
are:

Q. What is the present level of Sovict knowledge regarding
these phenomena?s

db. What ate possible Soviet capabilities to utilize these
phenomena to the detriment of US security interests?

ec. What effect do flying saucers have on our warning
systen.

This doement biter been
: Pn pcr £o3 hrot teh

7 Sou)

5. Conclusions:

a. The instigation of fundamental scientific research if
the primary responsibility of the Defense Department. &
bs The DCI, should Gispatch to Secretary sting te the

lines of the attached. The cover sheet explaining to the TAC

why the proposed letter is submitted i5 also attached. ( we otatel

dacs hiv or y the oe with A-2 pe AC)
¢. It is far too early in view of the present state our

huowLedge regarding Fiying Saucers for psychological warfare

planners to start planning how the United States might use U.&.

Plying Saucers against the enemy.

&» When intelligence has submitted the National Estimate on
Flying Saucers there will be the time and basis for a public policy
ray reduce or restrain mass hysteric.

JAMES Q. RISBER
Assistant Director
Intelligence Coordination

Unidentified Objects (F

omen g The nS 4
l. Attached is a proposed letter to Secretary Lovet, fom the

BCI recommending the initiation of fundemental scientific research
with respect to the nature and causes of unidentified flying objects
(Flying Saucers).

2. While it is recognized that the implications of Fiying Saucers
are of primary concern to the Defense Department in carrying out its
responsibility to defend the United States. it is also believed that
intelligence mist request of appropriate authority such assistance as
it needs to carry cut its responsibility. It is believed that the scientific
research required and the intelligence research contingent thereon can be
most fruitful if they go hand in hand.

3. Recommendations:

a. het the IAC coneur in the proposed letter to the Secretary
of Defense.

b. Phat the IAC request the Watch Committee to give close
attention to indications which may reflect Russian actions are
being teken with respect to or on the basis of cogaizance of Fiying
Saucers or with respect to the state of United States public opinion

im respect of Flying Saucers.

ne has. Seen

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary of Defense [attinee Line ey: FRE IN SCS

SUBIT Unidentified Flying Objects (Flying Saucers)

ls. The IAC has reviewed the current situation concerning
unidentified flying objects which have caused extensive speculation
in the press and have been the subject of concern to Government
organizations. The Air Force, within the limitations of manpower
which could be devoted to the subject, has thus far carried the full
responsibility for investigating and analyzing individual reports of
sightings. Since 1957, approximately 1500 officiel reports of sightings
have been received and, of these, about 20% are as yet unexplained.

2. It is wy view and that of the IAC that this situation has
possible implications for our national security with respect to the
vulnerability of the U.S. to air attack. Intelligence, however, cannot
discharge its responsibilities with regard to estimating the capabilities
of an enemy to create and use such phenoitena against the U.S. unless
we first determine through scientific search whether or not such
phenomena can in fact be generated and controlled by mumans.

3. It is therefore recommended, that the Department of Defense
(be directed to) undertake an expanded scientific research program to
reveal the nature of the varicus phenomena which are causing these sightir
and means by which these phenomena may be identified immediately. It 3
recommended that in such a project there be close cooperation betwey
conducting the research and scientific and technical intelligeny

The IAC agencies are prepared to do their part in such a pro,”