Approved for Release 2026 Under Section 1842 of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2024

Security Information

Leer. ©
18 December 1952 Cet vee:
Chlinee eta /2f2 Ug > _
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD Ke seve Age Se

SUBJECT: British Aetielty in the field of "Unidentified Flying Objects"

i. On 15 December, the recently arrived mess vr from Britain reported
the following. He had talked with R. V. Jones and | :

2. The British have had a standing committee created about sixteen
months ago on flying saucers. Presumably this is now under Dr. Jones through
inheritance. The RAF are action people. The group has concluded that the
observations are not enemy aircraft and that none bave been over Britain.

3. The activity has been quiet and normal up to about ten to twelve
days ago, at which time the Yorkshire incident took place. In some RAF field,
there was some sort of demonstration to whieh high officials of the RAF in
London had been invited. During the show, a "perfect flying saucer" was seen 3a, 6 3

by these officials as well. as RAF pilots. So. many people saw it that many Sah
appe U press. This is disturbing to Jones because a

he realizes that the creation of the correction of public opinion is a part a

of his responsibilities. ' Se

4. Jones reminded us of the Swedish incident (presumably he refers a
to the one in 1946), and reminds us of a paper on the origin of meteorites my
published in the French Academy of Sciences between 1760 and 1780 by Chladni. ac:

5. he traveler told Jomes of our interest at this time, mentioned —_—

the film which had been taken by the Naval non-commissioned officer (Tremonton :
incident). It is possible that Jones will write asking for a copy of the film >

or further on the same subject.
5 Mod c..

H. MARSHALL CHADWELL

‘ Assistant Director
Distribution: Scientific Intelligence
Opns/SI - 1 ;
P&E/SI - 1
W&E/SI - 1
AD/SI - 2

a Nee cated ap? ?

security Information

While there is no indication that these objects represent a
direct threat to the national defense, there are certain potential
dangers which are related to these sightings. These are:

1. he difficulty and delay in positive identification
which could weaken the early warning system in alerting defense
in the event of commencement of hostilities. * ,

2. The possibility of mass hysteria whieh might be pur-
posely: induced by an enemy at a critical time by faked reports.

3. fhe possibility that the emergency communications
systems to commend headquarters might be seriously overloaded
at a eritical time by such reports.

It is believed that the problems of communications confusion and
overload and the serious effects of mass hysteria must be dealt with
outside the intelligence community, and it is planned to bring these
matters to the attention of those agencies with whom the prime respon-
sibility appears to rest. With respect to mass hysteria, it is believed
this problem would lie with the Federal Civil Defense Administration and/
or the Interdepartmental Committee on Internal Security. Accordingly, |
it is planned to bring this to the attention of the FCDA and ICIS through
established channels. With respect to emergency communications overload-
ing, it is believed that each of the individual Military Services should
examine this problem. Aceordingly, we intend to introduce the subject
at a meeting of the Joint Communications and Electronies Committee.

“9 Bey. Seu. Ae Hager tl (d8) ADE fs € ogni gerd oe

tena | pope te -/ Lan gery

find claes “er preds Concern