Approved for Release 2026 ; yy,
“a oe & ~@ AN - ° tg

SEE BOTTOM OF PAGE FOR ADDITIONAL SPECIAL CONTROLS, IF ANY mK s&
—S=E=t-R-E-T— This materia! tentalns finformation affecting the
INF: ORMATION REPORT National Defense of the United States within the
meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18. U.S.C.
Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation
PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY ve wich Ex-ecty-snmoner’4y’ansungatherteed: per
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY son is prohibited by law.
COUNTRY REPORT NO.
00— G-30229
SUBJECT DATE DISTRIBUTED _
Sighting of Unconventional Aircraft 15° NOV OSS
NO, OF PAGES x Ur EncLsS. SS
SUPPLEMENT TO REPORT #
PLACE ACQUIRED (By source) RESPONSIVE TO
Azerbaijan SSR ove-Case 17074

DATE ACQUIRED (By gsource)| DATE OF INFORMATION (Date or dates, on or between which,
events or conditions described in report existed)
4k Oct 55 4 Oct 55

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
source US national, 41 years old, publicity and advertising vice president of large

Us corporation: His major education was in the field of political science

(Phi Beta Kappa), and he has lectured extensively on current affairs. He has had
no technical training or experience in aviation matters. He recently visited
the USSR as a tourist at the invitation of a senior Soviet official.

1. At 1630, 4 Oct 55, I boarded a train at Baku for Tiflis in the company of
three other US nationals, one of whom shared a Wagon-Lit compartment with
me; the other two occupied the adjoining compartment. The train ran very
slowly, making every stop; I would estimate its overall speed at 20 mph.
Exactly two hours and forty minutes out of Baku, one of our group in the
compartment next door entered my compartment and said, "Did you see that
out there? I just saw a flying saucer." I and my compartment companion
were about to laugh it off when the man from next door pointed out of the
window again, and then we all saw the following sight.

2. On the lefthand side of the train, between the train and the Caspian Sea
coast, was a large air field. The evening was dark but clear. A huge
searchiivnt, on the field itself, shone on a triangular object on the
ground which 1 would say was probably not more than two miles distant
from the railroad. [Collector's comment: Source first estimated that
the air field was about five miles away but, on further reflection,
changed the distance to the object to two miles./ The size of the object
was comparable to that of a US jet fighter, with a squat shape and in the
form of an equilateral txangle. There were three lights on the object,
one on each point of the triangle, presumably two wing lights and a tail
light. As we watched, it was ejected from its launching site, making not
less than three and not more than seven fast spirals in the air, after
which it climbed extremely fast at about a 45 degree angle. We watched

1% climb and saw it reach a high altitude; the searchlizht followed
it all the way.

3. I wish to emphasize that this was no ordinary take-off but a launching
procedure more like a missile ejection. Our companion from next door
reported that this was the second launching in rapid succession.

4. I believe that the train at the time of the sighting was between 50 and
65 miles south of Baku. TheUCaspiean Sea was still visible, While the
four of us were still watching the object ascending, the stevarl came —_
‘In end pulled down the blinds. én I began to protest, the steward
—pointed toward the rear of the car and shook his head, indicating to me

that the MVD man who had boarded the train at the moment of departure »
had ordered the blinds drawn. :

” Pus j Per
—— aS oa sj
DISTRIBUTION i
STATE ARMY NAVY q a=AIR [ [ore |
NOFORN NOQ_DISSEM_ ABROAD , LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI; and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other
offices producing NIS elements, and higher echelons with their immediate supporting ‘s. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects

or reserve personne] on shor! term active duty (excepting individuals who are normuuy full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FEI, State or Defense)
unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Collection and Dissemination, CIA,

5. Our party hed wished to make this part of the journey by air, but we
were informed by INTOURIST in Baku that there were no flights between
Baku and Tiflis. In Tiflis the INTOURIST people were surprised that
our party had not flown and said that there were several flights a

| . ag Bs.
B/r-oa OLAS njss
4s | Q)N
4061.87 2) N