Approved for Release 2026 Under Section 1842 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024

SEE BOTTOM OF PAGE FOR ADDITIONAL SPECIAL CONTROLS, IF ANY

Bede Papell eee mao conta |. rmation ec
INFORMATION REPORT Wale cea, a ask Eek es

National Defense of the United Siates within tho
meaning of the Espionage Lows; Title 18. U.5.C,
PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Secs, 793 and 794, the transmission or reyviction
of which In any manser fo gu uncuthoricr4 nar

son ta probibtied by Yaw. J) (TZ) 3 9 7

REPORT RO, pene B-9367h,

DATE OISTRIBUTEO

SUBJECT

Report of Vausual Flying Object Sightings and
Attendant Sclentifie Activity

PLACE ACQUIRED [By source)

a 2

OATE ACQUIRED [By source]| DATE OF INFORMATION [Dole or dates, am or betwean prhich,
events or sondiiiena described jn report existed)

Hor 55

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
SOURCE Neturaliged US cliizen of Eugarian extraction. He corresponds regularly with
two uleces Living in Budapest.

1. In Novediber 1955 T received a letter from niece in est. This letter
contained the Edllowing interesting item /free transletion/:

"The ab-celled flying saucers (rockets) /sic/ for several weeks kept
the people in a neryous state, ‘These very est speeding flyers kept
sclentifie groups. very busy. I'm sure you heard already from the
papers, 22 thousand km per how was estimated on these flyers."

2.  Ineluigd with the Letter was the following sketch indicating the forumbion
and mugpected course of the ebove objects:

Budapest CQ

Moscow

3. ‘This is the first time my niece has memtioned such objects in her letters.

h, ffivetiable on loan from CIA Library is & photostatic copy of original Letter
~ Sin. den. aid an English tranelation. .The nie quoted in para. 1

’ ¢3 wackBd in brackets in this letter. UNCLASSIFIED ~$ de fa sf”
- end -

NOFORN at NQ_DISSEM. ABROAD LIMITED /
UIAUTED: Dissemination limited ta full-time employees of CLA, AEC and FBI; ead. within State and Defense, to the Intelligence components, olher

offices producing NIS elements, and higher echelons with their Lnmediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consulionts, oxternal projec.s

or reserve personse! on short term cetive duty (excepting Individuals who are normally full-time emplayees of CLA, AEC. PRI. State or Defense}

unless the-wrlifém permission of the originaling office hag been obtoined through the Assisiont Director for Callection ond Dissemination, CLA.

Dear Uncle

I don't know whether the letter I sent before will arrive I wish you
all a very Merry Christmas and a happy New Year. Heré, the children are

preparing for Christmas. The shops are full of toys and Christmas trees. -

The streets are crowded with window shoppers.

The three of us are spending the holidays in Pest

[he children will have a vacation from 20 December through 17 January,

I

took a day off on All Souls' Day

you write so little. How are you? Has the family grown?

Are you all well?

is having a lot of trouble with her back. has been sent

off for a week to do some work in the province, he won't return till the
evening of the 24th,
A famous German circiis is on tour here now with many animals and artists.
They say it is very good. We are planning to see it with the children.
Everyone has been ‘excited by the so-called saucers for the past few

weeks. These fast-rushing heavenly phenoma have been and still are keeping

scores of scientists busy. Khas surely seen them or read about them;

these amazing fliers moved at a speed of 12,000 kilometers per hour.
We wish you all good health and send our regards and affection to mother

and the children. Much love and many prayers,