A ee i le a marie

A A Re Ss a cle poe ge

te ee eee ee et

Approved for | eenenees mes etn: repent poe

Pentel tigger leer ge cr rea

Domestic Collection. Division

Forcign Intelligence laformation Report

OIECTORATE OF
OPERATIONS

ek is

COUNTRY USSR DCD REPORT NO. =» OO B~321/33474-76

SUBJECT Combating Facigue in Crewmembers/ DATE O1StR. lo November 1976
Aeroflot Work Cycles/Use of Drugs/ *
Biological Effects of Airerafrt Noise/
Radiation Research/UFO Phenomena/

Protocype Pilot Biological Psychomotor —

NO. PAGES 4

Testing ee Navigation

DATE DATE OF ntl

__ THIS 1S UNE\ UNEVALUATED | INFORMATION |

SCURCE

SUMMARY: Aeroflet officials are actively involved in aerospace
medical research. They are concerned with the medical aspects
of physical conditioning which impinge upon crewmember perfor-m-
ance and have perfected several devices which test pilot bic-
logical functioning and motor response ability. Dr Inal
Georgiyevich Akoyev, a noted radiation biclogist explained cosmic
ray particles (phosphenes) which are causing Aeroflot pilots toa
“see" flashes of light during night flying. Dr [fnu] Akucin,
__evber at the Civil Aviation Institute of Leningrad showed
| rototype pilot biological psychomotor testing equip-
ment which measures blood pressure, pulse rate, cardiovascular
function and motor ability. The equipment is automatic and test-
ing is completed in approximately three minutes.

1. The Soviets deal with crewmember fatigue in several ways. First, they
emphasize and promote physical conditioning. -If a crewmember is physically
fit, he will be less prone to fatigue and will recover sooner after
tiring Flights. Aeroflot provides exercise facilities at all major atr--
ports,and these facilities are supervised by a well known athlete. The
second thing they do is to thoroughly test each crewmember prior to flight
to insure his physical fitness and mental alertness. At the present time,
these tests are conducted by a medical team headed by a doctor, usualiy a
woman. A crewmember is not allowed to fly if he fails the examinatton..’

These tests are now being automated and will take only 1-3 minutes when the
prototype equipment becomes operational, Finally, there is a third approach
Aeroflot is using~-a prophylactorium. Each major airport has one, a3 to  } |;
4 story building set off from the main airport buildings, but easily acces~ :
sible by foot. These facilities are well landscaped and are designed to prov

tetal rest and relaxation for transient crewmembers. They have a large kitchen

at a

| — CaO teat A — | 008-321/35674-76

Dr AKeyey asked for personal opinion of the OFO pheromencr,
He was teld thar 99 percent Of these occurrences were tracegbie

to either nacural or man-made phenomena such as celesetal movement, air-
eratt or artificial satellices, and thac the other one pereent cannot he
explained--possibly an hallucination. Akoyev then asked, “Do you think
it is possible...could there be somezhing coming’ frum cuter space?"

Dr lfau) Akutin, w cybernecicist at the Civil Aviation Instituce of
Leningrad. has developed several prototypes of pilot cresting eyuipmenc.
The equi:vent is planned to replace most of the currenc ducies of medical

nersonnel who examine pilots prior to flight. The automatic devices will
be installed in ali airport flight operations facilities. Akucin and his
agsociaras demonstrated | |a sec of instruments which automac-

teally muveure a pilot's blood pressure and pulse rare, cecard his cardio-
vaseuhs: tauneniening with arelectcc tardiogram, ene test his motor reaction
process.

The device is activated by inserting a small metallic plate into the
testing machine. The plate, one of which is carried by each crewmember,
contains a biological baseline on that particular individual. His normal
blood pressure, pulse rate, electrocardiogram, and motor ability are coded
into the metal place. This plate is updated annually,or more often if
required. After rhe plate is inserted into the machine, the pilot places
the middle Finger of each hand into two little holes and rests his wrists
on two small metal plates on a table. Small, automatic pneumatic cups
close around the fingers and inflate. The machine then measures the blood
pressure and pulse rate by comparing the two fingers, computing a mean, and
then comparing the result with the encoded information on the pilot's plate.
The systolic and diastolic blood pressure and pulse rate are chen displayen
on the face of che machine in an electronic digital form. At the same tixe
the machine automatically administers an electrocardiogram “across the
heart" and displays this on a cathode-ray tube. If any of these values 2.%
outside the normal standazd for that particular individual, a light illui..
fates and further examination is required by a medical doctor. If no lighter

‘A1lluminates, the pilot is passed.

The pilot then faces a panel of red and green colored lights. On the panci
are green and red colored buttons. The lights begin to illuminate in a
random fashion, with the pilot being required to press the corresponding
color button immediately to extinouish the colored light. This test
continues for approximately 20-30 seconds, during which che lights flash

in 6 random sequence. At the end of the testing period, the machine scores
the pilot's performance and digitally displays his score in the number of
correct and wrong responses. If he. scores as high or higher than his
standard, he is passed; if his score is lower, a light illuminates ana
further examinacion is required by a medical doctor. There are three
separate programs which are randomly selected, making it impossible to
memorize the sequence of the lights.

Finally, the pilot is seated before a minfature cockpit with a control
stick and an attitude indicator. The.control stick must be moved to keep
the attitude indicator (artificial horizon) ‘straight and level. The
indicator pitches up and down and From side to side and very closely dupii-
cates actual instrument flying conditions. The control stick also

closely approximated necessary pilot skilis.: At the end of this tesr,
the score is again displayed and, depending upon his standard, a pilot passes
or fails. The entire sequence of testing, from ‘taking blood pressure to
the control stick evaluation, takes approximately three minutes. If a
pilot passes all phases, his personal profile plate along with a certizi-
cate card is returned to him. He must present the certificate card to

the flight dispatcher before he ia allowed to board the aircraft.

‘Roa oO