FORM NO. 26

1

Approved for Release 2026 7
1 NOV 1955
ASD -

C1A CONTROL NO.

LASHES

DATE DOCUMENT RECEIVED

coPY No. gg
NUMBER OF PKGES

NUMBER OF ATTACHMENTS
Vite

ATTENTION: This form will be placed on top of and attached to each Top Secret document received by the Central Intel-
ligence Agency or classified Top Secret within the CIA and will remain attached to the document until such time as it
is downgraded, destroyed, or transmitted outside of CIA. Access to Top Secret matter is limited to Top Secret Control
personnel and those individuals whose official duties relate to the matter. Top Secret Control Officers who receive
and/or release the attached Top Secret material will sign this form and indicate period of custody in the left-hand
columns provided. Each individual who sees the Top Secret document will sign and indicate the date of handling in the
right-hand columns.

SEEN BY

DATE

wal

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT: When this form is detached from Top Secret material it shall be completed in the appropriate
a ae below and transmitted to Central Top Secret Control for record. ‘

| DOWNGRADED DESTROYED | __ DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA) | | __ DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA) | CIA)

eo iP —_— Po

BY (Signature) WITNESSED BY (Signature) BY (Signature)

ae _

U PREVIO DITIO
APR 55 SE PRE US E NS.

MEMOBASDUM POR: Director cf Contgall Intelligence
PUBIECS : Sightings of Flying seucers or Unccrventional Aircraft

i. Ali four participants in the cbecrvation of the flying saucers
is & Summary of their obpervaticus.

@e tho party wis travelling ty twain from Bat to Tiflis at
the apecific request of Senator ‘useel) who tried to we rail
1On whenever it was at all feasible. ‘The sightings were
noted sbout ten mimstes beyond Alyaty at 1910 hows ween it was
already dark. Senwtor Huseell was resting alowe in hie compartecnt
with the lights owt when he noted a mui] greanish-yellow qicwing
tell rising quite rapidly. le informed the other meanders of the

5+ Senator Rusaell newer sav the form of the object only the
luminescent ball. . fren euw only two lightea resenbiing «yes.
(olonel Hathaway sow a shadowy object with a single light in the

ecale end ap treil was left vy
the rising ball. ir. Gros anf Colonel Axtheway considered the size
of the object to be ecaparahle to that of a U. S$. jet fighter.
iowever, Colonel Sathaway believes thet the object did uot resmdle
any alreraft, rocket or nissile that he had ewer sem. Al) observers
agree on the ingpression thet the chject wus roteting or whirling
during ite rise along ite initial steep trajectery. Ret ther jenator
Seseell nor Mr. Gros soted amy change in this trajectory, but

volomel Hothaway end Mr. Efron stabed that the object sitered

reported
which appeared to be ejected from a launching site.

4. Pesed on the interviews eo far, the only testimony which
wrld sappaxt the existence of flying saucers or radically
meurventional afreraft is that sf Colomel Rethewmy. All other

G. S. L585
oa >
Copy zg of 7

Bightimes of Flying ..neers or Uncosventional Aireraft

of giasiles, further discussions will probably be requined before
the evidence does aot appear gufficientiy fire to warrant the
comelugion ihst the Sewlate heave developed and have in vperation
& cudicaliy cew type of aiwereft.

Apeistant Director
‘elentifie Iatelligence

OSI:HScoville:gs (31 October 1955)

Distribution
Orig & 1 = fri
~ OCT

1
1
1 oe
1 = Gu/SI
2

~ AD/SI

Copy. of 7"