DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
ee
MINUTE PAPER

Rerremnce: 1092/7

DST!

salle Beh e bra yom one ahtirlg, Mule

(oereuns io “ede a bre ened fet ee a
Fone tite be oan |! oe
oF ..hLmLrmLmrrrrrrC:tsti‘CR:CO#*s*Ciséi‘“CECOCO*W#”®:C*CiéisésCr*é=C®SC:téiéiéséC=saNT:sa CVNYSSRCSCi‘SCSCSCj
a hh UrUrULUrCs:ti<‘;i«<“C?*t*sSCSC;i;S;stsés=i‘(C*y’COCOC”NWC*Ci:CU*isiéC ; é‘i‘l‘éC;yCRCOCC
— Tie ge905 fee. | i i...
Boge led Gee e oo ele. _ | i...
Oik, G8 Ale Ge2ee, Genes. : | i g_g£« _s
Geek vecoven. be 222508 Cees aoe. we eye Foe
Wea son 67eleee 2620 Gy UP ole. Ghle ey losses oe beet galled
Peon GeGtoteeleed sboereg collected by ae vallee oa
TT rrC—=“RRSCrCrCsCisCi<Cié’éyySCCSCCO”COiC*CCSC;é«C;sC;sr;CONC*sC;séCrsCsCié#éC
LC CC*i*ti«é“‘CRCCOCN#C#C#éC#C
60 $808 2280 92 ee eort oe.

oo LLlLr,rrCer—“‘CRSNSCésCRCECéiésésé;SC a
a hhLUmrrr~—”~—C~—“‘<(VSNSCNCWCsCORR...CCdsiésC¥<scC.zaséC(‘(SRYRC”C;C;zCW (heer ee
Mil, @elenes ee. 6) one l ve, Selene s tle e6e.) fee Ohen gaeca-
.. .hCh..rmrmUmUmr””rUmCm™:”CUCUCUCU..UCiCi‘C‘C®’y’SCONi*#C:Cié‘Cj‘yYYyCSCSCN”COC(iC¥jC.
bo §@6656) Sheee che eablene §e defend gehen 11 peceeeery.

(Ul. 20a
= Ges [uelear geunon

Nelonel Alcnives oF AusiTada NAA AU 3Ge Boe ea

SUNMARY

The carly analyses of UPO reports by USAP intelligence
indicated that real phenomena . were being reported which had flight
characteristics so far in advance of U.S. aircraft that only an
etre lerreshlal origin could be envisaged, A government Age ney
which [a0e1 events indicalcd 0.b¢- toe C14 Office of Sei eulifie
Intelligence (081), studied the UPO reports with the intention 6f
determiniag tic UFO propulsion-methods, At that time, OSI was
responéible for intelligence on foreign research and development

im nucleac 400 9158116 salbere,

2. The CIA became alarmed. at the overloading of military
communicaliong Juring the muse. sightings of 1952 and censidered

the possibility that the USSR may take adventage of such a situation.
As a resull, OSI ecting through the Robertson-panel mabe ting of
mid-January 1953, persuaded the USAF to wee Project. BLUE BOOK-as.5
means cf publicly debunking” UPO's, and #t a later stage to @llceste
funds for the Avro advanced “saucer” aireraft eat the launching of 4
eYash Ploeramny Late antimeravity pewirs Toe dnitisie such progreénids
decades ahead of normal scientific development would indicate thay
ibe Use. Governsent gekwuwledeed the eXistetes ef 4Vinced "seireraret
which presumably used a gravity-centrel methed of prowuleion., An
additional motivelian ceuld heave been the Pear that@the USSR wewta
achieve this goal before the U.S.

a, By erecting a facade of ridicule, the U.Siheped to allay
public alarm, reduce the possibility of the Soviet taking advanlave

of UFO mass sightings for either paychological 6¥ actual warfare
Purposes, and act as a cover for the real U.S. programme of developing
veblcles thet emulate UPO pevforienees: . the RAAF Logether with sany
other countries of the world give eredente only to the UGAP poblic

facade and appear to have uncritically actéeyted the associated

information. This information has been widely discredited by retiring
U.S. Service personne] formerly engazed on UFO investigul ons, as
well us by eclentists and private el tlsens.

4, The conclusions of the Condon report conflict with its own

contents und has been discredited by many bepuleble scientists
including the UFO scientific consultant to the USAF. IW accordance

| National Archives of Australia NAA Al1369S, 3092/2/000

with the recommendations of thé Condon yeport, Project BLUE BOOK
wis terminated, but presumably this would Have little effect an

{He main progracme.

ee 14 weld appear wrong for AstPalla (6 renadn ignorant o7
the 4rue situacien, We leck an intelligenee viewpoint thut can
assess the dature and possible consequences of the preblem, a
ecitentifie vierpeliet that could derive scientifically valid data
from the veperts and a public telations viewpoint thet can hones tay
satisfy public interest. To overcome these deficiencies in the
Austbalian tovestigation of UPO'’s, 26 would seen that a strong case
exigis for the acceptante of the RAAF suggestion that anather
government department assume responsibility for the investigation

and analysis of UFO reports.

| National Archives of Australia » NAA A13093, 3092/2/000,

U.8. OFPPICTAL ATTITUDE TO U.F.0's

in. June of 1947 the Air Technical Intelligences Centre
(ATIC) near Daeton, Ohio, aseuned a responsibility to investigate
the aGnitial voports of ‘flying saucers’, Within a menth i was
conpeidercd thet the phensmenn were real end probably of Soviet
origin, 29 the end of the year, when ATIC was officially autherieed
Lo investigate under the projec} tede name of SIGN end with a high
pricrity,most of the investigators were focussing on an inter
planetary ravher than « Soviet origin, These epinions. vere
eryuteiliged inte «a written estimate that was sent to the Pentagon
in Sephember 1948, When the interplanetary conclusions were rejec ed
on the grounds of insufficient herd evidence, a reaction set in at
ATIC. against trying to unravel the UFO problem,

Zs In February 1949, ATIC personne] on Preject. SIGN were

replaced with new personnel to Form Project GRUDIE. A definite
atlewpt was made during 1949 to. use Project GRUDGE to déstfoy aay
acceptance of UFO's. The motives for this are not clear: possibly
Ait Force emberressment of being inceapcble of controlling the
situstion and/or a fear 6f national sande prompted USAP te try and
remove the problem by denying its existence, Another possible

motive may have been to previde a breathing space for another
“investigative agency" to reach some conclusiens; the agency had been
eieiebing ATIC through 1048 and, contrary te official USAP policy,

Was mainijeining a high level of interest during 1949. This governmental
agency was not the FBI, end head recket, nuclear and intelligence
experts; their purpose was to atudy UFO veports in en effert ta gather
design Gate on intecplanetaty spaceships. Ia. ite lieht ef later

developmenis, this agency was almost certainly the CIA.

Be Project GRUDGE failed te eliminate the UFO prebiem. UFO
reports in 1949 actually exceeded the number in 1948, add sevdras
people who bad gained gecess to @arlier effleial peperts were able

te contradiet the USAF, dJournaliste generally felt that GRUDGE
reporting represented & cover tO a2 more seriqus knowledge, Eventually,
USAF intelligence decided that a dregh approach to the peoeblem wes
necessary, Between Septemser 1951 end the establishment of Prejest
BLUE BOOK in March 19592, UFO investigation regained adequate financial
and ddtiinietrative support te once agein anelyse the collewted deta,
Project BLUE BOOK waa able te process the date.dram 3,200 reperte. inte

' National Archives of Australia NAA A13693. 3092/2/000

Eben

¢q Sorling machines,

4. fhe suniner of 1952 sa¥ a more than (weniy-feld rise in

the mormel rete of reporting end. included the iwo extensive duly
Sighlings invelving Weshingten D.C. Tie marked imerease in sightiaus
had diversé effects, <A Govlponent of USAP intelligence considered
that UFO's were interplanetary epaceships which were about to make
closer contact. To prepare the publie for thie possibility, 42
previously classified reports Were released for publication between
dugust 1952 end February 1053, ‘These reports contradicted the
turlier offielal USAP poliey of dismissing the reports ae mis~
identifications ete. On the other hand, the CIA regarded the susmer
UFO activiiy as. threat to nadienal security mainly because the
resulting ¢rewiled communications and defence forces dpvelvenent

lessened the level of mational alertaess againgt pessible enemy etouck,

Sa A. scientific panel chaired by U.P. Reberteon was somvened be

the Office of Selentifie Intelligence of CITA during mid-January 1953
for the purpose of recommending future action on the UFO problem.
Rriefings were made beth by CIA and USAF. ATIC personne] showed tie
then classified two mavie filws ef UFO's and the early results of
sielistical analysis ef 3,200 reperis.. Becadse 6f the. vitel iesues
involved, the panel felt restricted to recommending. that the
investigation be continued, but with increased persemiel and equipment.
The USAF responded promptly with an instruction to comply with these
recommendations.

6. The CIA, hewewer, in a report dated 14 February 1953 showed
& preference to publicly abendan the liver tigation whilst intensifying
the eollection of data. Ey September 1993 the CIA position hed been
largely wchieved with Projeet BUTE BOOK reduced from «a etaff af ten
qualified personnel operating at a top secret level to a virtually
imactive project involving one sirman. The investigating eonpdnent
hed been traneferred to the 4602nd Aig divtexligenee Service: Squadron
which was trained in rapid intelligence eracurement and reported te
Air Defence Command and USAF latelligence Washingten rather than
; BLUE BOOK. Diréet acceds between the 460@nd ATSS and 221-80 uniis
wae authorized by AFR 200.2 whereas previously this privilege had
been given to BLUE BOOK. Although only the airmen. (first-class)
remained in September 1943, BLUE BOOK was later built-up to ane
officer, one sergeant, one searetary, wad a perl. lime-cendul tant

| National Archives of Australia NAA: A13693, 3092/2/000

Ded. Allen Hynck, staying wh about thie level until a4 was closed
down in December 1969. Dering this time BLUE BOOK served mainly
as @ means of “supplying unclassified summaries of UFO identifications

to the public, and did not form a vidal link im colleetion oF

Serious analysis.

7. Control of public awareness of the UFO situation was
tightened by the issuing of JANAP 146 in 1955 which prohibited
service persoanel from discussing UFO's hy threatening defeulters
with up to 10 years gaol and up to a. $10,000 fine. When service
personnel resigned or retired, however, 1% was possible to reveal
USAF attitudes ov opinions even if actual data was still restricted,
Tm this way many Intelligence Officers associated: with the UFO proplem,
including Majer D, Foutnet who was BLUE BOOK Project Officer at the
Pentegon until late 1952, Captein E. Huppelt whe beaded Project
GRUDGE and Project BLUE BOOK until September 1953 and Admiral
Hillenkoether who directed CIA from (is inception until October 1950,
ow vetiving from the services, a1] publicly stated thei the U.8.
Government knew UFO's were extra-terrestial bel was withholding

this fact from the public.

8, When the National Investigation Committee on Aerial Phenomena
(NICAP) was ferned in 1956 te counter the publicly suppressed USA?
investigation of UPO's, the first Chairman was Admiral D.8. Pahrney
whe had directed the Navy's guided missile pregramme Crem its
inception. Apart from Admiral Uillenkeetter, Major Reyhoe and

Major Fowriet, other Direttors. hive ineluded Rear Admiral H.B. Enowles,
General A. Wedemeyer and Gol J.J. Sryan (who was a special assistant
to the Secretary of the Air Pores). To veduce thé effect of these
and similar defections from offieiel policy after retirement, bie
yYevised JANAP 146E, passed in 1960, made 11 an offence under the
Espionage Act if date on UFO's were revealed.

en The change in style «ef USA? reporting before amd after the
Heberteon panel meeting ia clearly indicated in the Projet) BLUE BOO
Special Report No. 14. The body of the reporb prepared belween

March 1952 and early 1953, although biesed in favour of a4 natural
explanation for UFO's, Hevertheless showed mathematically thet the
evidence favoured an explanation (hat. was s¢ieniicicelly unknown.
This section of the 316 pare report was not released te the public

other then as a copy te be consulted, aesuming the reader knew of

National Archives of Australia NAA: A13093, 3092/2/0U0

| WNaional Archives of Australia

q ite.emietence., Public distritwtien was made, however, of 4 So
ealled “summary” which in fact did net summarise, nox scarcely
@llude to the 1947-52 data, but gontentrated om 1055-55 reparting
Hiich was Clearly designed to reduce the residual unltnowns to an
ingignificant mumber, no matter hew eengelese the identification

became.

1, Within the body ef the difficult—to-oltain réport there

if af imteresting diagrem, The product of the estimated observer
veliebility and the report. relisbilite became the sighting
reliability. The percermiage of Peparta thet had to be registered
as “unknown” (4.¢. incapable af being ¢veu approximebely identified
as ea known object) increased as. the sighting relisbildty improved.
Canversely, the percentage lieted as “insufficient tformation"

decreased with improving reliability.

Sighiing No. oF Unknown Tnsuffici ens.
Reliability : Reports . (4) . SInfordation

Poor 435 16,6 21.4
Dowbt ful T94 43.0 L4.0
Good 737 2458 3.6
Excellent 213 3343 4.2

Lis Throughout the years of the UPQ phenomenon, there has been

& Persistent form of offlciar pronduncements whieh state that the
percentage of unknewns would be vedueed if move data were available.
fhe above table contradicts thet statement. Reports of exeel lent
reliability generally stem from astronomers, pilots, seientists,
surveyors, mebecrelegiets, radar operaters ote, complete with
instrumented valves and acehrately detailed accounts, The
introduction of good reliable reporting prevents the ready proéwic
interpretation, In a1] probability the overall average percentage
of walwowns (19.75) would have Deen sule lantially imereased- if the

a€ete hed been more reliable,

M2. Prejeet ELVE BOOK consultants steatieticelly teeted the
unknown object pepulavion to determine the likelihood thet i> was
Similar to the population of identified objects and found that the
probability was less than ene in 1928 (ive, weing the American

NAA-A13693, 3092/2/000

| WNaional Archives of Australia

q ite.emietence., Public distritwtien was made, however, of 4 So
ealled “summary” which in fact did net summarise, nox scarcely
@llude to the 1947-52 data, but gontentrated om 1055-55 reparting
Hiich was Clearly designed to reduce the residual unltnowns to an
ingignificant mumber, no matter hew eengelese the identification

became.

1, Within the body ef the difficult—to-oltain réport there

if af imteresting diagrem, The product of the estimated observer
veliebility and the report. relisbilite became the sighting
reliability. The percermiage of Peparta thet had to be registered
as “unknown” (4.¢. incapable af being ¢veu approximebely identified
as ea known object) increased as. the sighting relisbildty improved.
Canversely, the percentage lieted as “insufficient tformation"

decreased with improving reliability.

Sighiing No. oF Unknown Tnsuffici ens.
Reliability : Reports . (4) . SInfordation

Poor 435 16,6 21.4
Dowbt ful T94 43.0 L4.0
Good 737 2458 3.6
Excellent 213 3343 4.2

Lis Throughout the years of the UPQ phenomenon, there has been

& Persistent form of offlciar pronduncements whieh state that the
percentage of unknewns would be vedueed if move data were available.
fhe above table contradicts thet statement. Reports of exeel lent
reliability generally stem from astronomers, pilots, seientists,
surveyors, mebecrelegiets, radar operaters ote, complete with
instrumented valves and acehrately detailed accounts, The
introduction of good reliable reporting prevents the ready proéwic
interpretation, In a1] probability the overall average percentage
of walwowns (19.75) would have Deen sule lantially imereased- if the

a€ete hed been more reliable,

M2. Prejeet ELVE BOOK consultants steatieticelly teeted the
unknown object pepulavion to determine the likelihood thet i> was
Similar to the population of identified objects and found that the
probability was less than ene in 1928 (ive, weing the American

NAA-A13693, 3092/2/000

' National Aithives of Australia . NAA: A13693, 3092/2/00

Ba

consultants had arbitrarily called ell. green fireballs and. shert

4 system, the odds were ten thousand trillion triliion to one
against thé unkaiewas being the samé as the khewns). Since the

duration. (i.c. less: then five seconds) night-time sightings as
mown astronomical objeetsa there was an widue preponderance in
thet category. dence, assuming that no a¢tronemical abjects vere
left in the unknowns, the statistical tests were repeated with
astronomical identifications removed. The odds were reduced to
tén trillion trillion to one. ‘The analysts could not find a way
to reduce these odds sufficiently further to warrant additional

testing, and irrationally considered the resulis to be “ineoneLusive™,

13. While PROJECT RLUE BOOK ehdeavoured to reduce the official
number. of unknowns ~ in 1997 they claimed enly 14 ent ef 1,006
Siplitings remained unidentified ~ the covert programe expanded
considerably. The gevermment agency laluast certainly CIA) thas
had been collecting data on UFO performance and propulsion methods
during 1948-52 presumably influenced U.S. governmental funding. of
certain advanced projects. One projeet was the Canadian Avro saucer.
A drawing of this saucer released im October 1955, showed a typical
fiying disc as described in many UPOQ reports. The Secretary of the
Air Foree, D.A. Quarles, appeared moderately confident that such

a vehiole would be successfully déveloned by the 0.5.

14, A more astounding decision om the part. of the U.S. Gevernment
was bo allecate considerable funds. to investigate gravity and a

heans of contrelling gravity, Despite the Tact that. science had

not attained a level of competences to deal with either gravity or
anti~-gravity problems and- ihe only theory that might be applicable
was Einstein's Unified Pield Theory which was still incomplete at the
time of his death, the U.S. chose to suppert six universities. and
government egencLes in an all-out drive te conquer the problen.

It is significant thet @t this time the current theories on UFO
propulsion were « aixture of gravity control and electio~magnetic
propulsion.

LSa: During 1955, beeause insufficient staff could. be recruited

for the projeot, recourse was made to an urgent. appeal for thewretical
physicists and mathematicians from AERE Harwell, U.K. The six
Gravity Research Centres being established were atthe Institute for
Advanced Study (Princeton, NvJ.), Princeton University, University

4 of Indiana, Pordue University Research Foundation, University of
North Carolina and the Massaclueetts Institute of Technology
through the (Roger Babson) Gravity Research Inetdtute (New Bos tas
Nw.). The latter institute is a neneprefit organization founded
in 1949 with George M. Hideout as Presadent. It was believed that
to fake a gravity moter, @ gravity differential. was required which
necessitated the discovery of an ilusulateor, deflector or absorber
of gravity. By 1955, 455 essays had been written on this subject
and awards totalling $10,800 made for eriginal contributions.

16. The selentists involved laclwied Teller from University

of California, Oppenheimer and. Fid, Dysen of the Institute of
Advanced Studies, J.A. Wheeler and Ri¢hard Arnowftt af Princeton,
Vaclay Hlavaty «f University of Th@dana (whe had worked with
Einstein in Fragee) amd Stanley Deser. The objective was te contrel
pravity,. During 1955 the following TLirme entered into gravity
and/or electromagnetic programmes: eon Lb. Martin Aviation Ce.
(specifically Dy B. Heirn from Goettingen University and Dr FP.
Jordan from Hamburg University), Convair of Sen Diese, Bell Airerats
of Buffalo, Sikersky Division, Lear Ine. of Satta Monica, Clark.
Blectronics of Palm Springs, Califeraia, and Sperry Gyreséeope
Division of Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y.

ats Buch 4n intensive emelanughtoon the gravity enigma. vas
entirely Irrational from the standpoint of eenventicnal seience,

end can only be rationalized within the context of a firm belief
that UFO's were real and thet the intelligences behind them knew
now to control gravity, The drive to harness this power before

the USSU cquld do ac would be a strong imeentive for the 7.8.
Government to fully support en anti-eravity programme. By 1966,

46 separate projects of this nature were being findncially supported,
33 of whieh were under the supervision of the UVS. Air Feree,
Although details of most of these projects have been Kept classified
it would eppear that generally they have not been successful. Work
on gravitational waves by J. Weber ard his associates under USAF
Cambridge Research Leboreatory jurisdiclion has been reported. _

fairiv extensively since 1966,

Le. During August of 1965 Projeet PLE BOOK received 262
reports which was about six times Jhe average dumber for a siohih

and Was twite any previews month Since November L957. On

_ National Archives of Australia NAADAI36093, 3092/2/000

uw

28 Sepiember 1965 May, Gen. Lefailiy, Director of Tafeormetion,

faroolly ,eqeested the Air Force Selestifice Advisory Board 16

Yeview Project BLUE BOOK, The feview suggested that. the Limited

Project. BLUE. BOOK staff and the ofVielal investigating officers

did nel pogerss the tenhileal competence to properly identify the

phendmend and. that university divans should be appointed te

invesligute sdlected sightives. This conclusion. was stpported by

the House Armed Services. Committee which met on Aprid Sth 1966

in the shadew of a puljlie Purere consequent to the USAF identityang

the well~pulilicised Michigan. sightings <s being swenp gas. The

Colacedo University was selected. for the tagk and Dr-Edward 1. Condon

appointed to lead the project with an ivitial alleeation of $319,600

leter faised to $925,000,

Vs The Colerads project became discredited when Dre Candon

ateted gublicly on 200h Janiery 1967 taat “my attitude. right. new

ee Vheat there's scthing to i+, bat Tm net sumpomed te reach «
eontlugion for anothey year", The revealing of a memorandum
ouilifhing a method to tick the public, combined with a. general
éiesatisfuction at Conden’s bisgssed attitude, led to the dismissal
andl resignation of myst of the staff .after most ef the investigations
had been made but nat completely written up. The final cepert of 965
poges locked coherence. Conden'’s concluglens Were eb variance with
individual staff conclusions, alihough only Conden's conclusions were
publicieed. As a result of the Conden report, USAP clesed down
Project BLUE. BOOK shortly before the American Association. for the
Adwancenent of Scienue held & spetdal meeting ta counter—act the
effect of the Condon report. The Chairman of the Special. Ueemiites,
De Taornten. Page, was one of ihe signatories te the Boberteon. revert.

20, Dr Jd. Allen Nyvek, seientific consultant to Pregeet Blwe
Book 1948-69, bewan his e@eqciaticn with @ conviction that. 411
Sighvings could be tenveniioneiiy explained. Even though doubts
grees in bie ming, be found Dimeel’ obliged to support offielal UBAP
public. policy, Ginee 1960, bevever, he hae become nore cute poken
ageingt The USAP attitude agd hag eeeisted te tonvrene both
qunpresgional bearings and stientific eympesie of the subject.
Although Igvivilally sepperting the Condon Vommrlige he becane
Gisillusioned and critical of it with tne passage of time. It is
quite @lear that De Hynek slong with many other repetable selentiets

ak

dé nol €tcept the USAF explsnation of migidentification, Ayeterta er

National Afchives of Australia NAA: 413693, 3092/2/000

BAAR APELTUUS 70 UPO's

The Divectorate of Air Foree Tatelligence is the component
of the HAAY that ls responsible for the analysis of all official
reporting of Unidentified Plying Objects. At no stage has there
been More than one part-time «fficer allocated to this task,
Initial investigation of reports is often undertaken by a part-time
investigetor from near-by aly bases. The BAAF sdwits that its
interests Tie solely in the atea.of sir defence and it lacks beth
interest and competence to. coneider the stlentific aspects. A
1957 request for the Scientifie Intelligence section of JIB ic except
UPO responsibility was rejeeted by JIh. in 1968, the Deparimens ef
Aix stated thet if intended “to take up further the questiea of
Commonwenlih departvents, e.g, Defened, Supply, Edueation and
Seience, Prime Minieter's Depearinent ete. to see whether some other
Componweaith Agency is better placed to assume reapiunsibility for
Unidentified Flwing Objects, At the same time we would maintain
our interest in the matter and work with any other Commonseeal] th
agency who i¢ considered ta be more appropriate as a co-ordinating
agency for the Commonwealth ag a whole", There does not appear to
have been any fulfillment of thie intentaen te seek Commonwealth

aseielance,

2 In support of the PAAR’s admission of selentifice disinteres+,

on identification list of 11 sightings made between 1960 and 1965
contains 15 identifications of. Venus, not. one ef which 18 valid.

in every case Venus vas in a totally different part of the sky or not even
above the horizon. Oat of 37 meteor identifications, only 9 e¢ould
possibly be qeteors and even several of these cases would be doubtful.
This off-hand uwnselentiifiec attitude to identifieation did not escape

the notice of the press or various scientiste,

3, in general, the RAAP atiatade bas been guided by the USAF
public releases which were aimed at alleying public interest by

denying the reality of UFO's. Censequendly, mest of dhe Avetralian
reporta were gives identifications without a great consern for

rational correlation. Most investigaiars aad collestors regarded

thelr UNO tasks as an dotrusion inte their more Legitimate. tasks.

As e result, there has been a neglipible scientific anelysis of the
data and most opinions expressed by DAPI have been. largely a reflection
of the USAP public altitude. With the present reduced staf? of DART

Netional Archives of Australia NAAPAISOGS SOG 2/2/0098.

iv de aniikely that UFO reports will receive any treatment beyond

flange.

as If Austrailia is te follow the U.8. lead, fnatead of
fellowing the public USAP attitude, 1% would he preferable to
fellow the UBSAP/CIA role of coneentrating on gainitig & knowledge
af the power sources involved. However, it may be preferable to
act independently of the U.8. and initiate @ programme that. is
sciembifically sound and intellectually honest towards unravelling
the UFO aiyetery. cn such a venture, it may be worthwhile working
somewhat ¢leser ta the public than ie usual in the U.3. and U.E.

ie

Netional Archives of Australia «NAA A13693, 3092/2/000

CGY OF U8. INVESTIGATION INTO U.P .O. PRENOMENA

Rete

6.47

26.7 487
23,9 47

30.18

15.1048
220088

26,97 AG

9.48

L312 As

Leo

2e8D

Nationa: Atcrives or Australia

ff

Brent

Arnold sighting of nine “

saucers” creales public divberes*.
Inveotigations: initiated byehir Techwies] Intelligence
Centre (A tlc) of Avy Material Command (ANC, Army: Air Forces}
al. Wright-Pebierson 4ir Fores Jase near Dayton, Ohi.
Indtially Sowlet wivanced aireraft were suapeeted.,

se

Nationa, Security Act ¢ereates. both the USAP and OTA.

Lt Gen, Twining (AMC) requested the Commander Aruy Alt Forces
to .s8nue en authority, prieriiy and code name Per the
investigation of "Sivine diges", Freliminary conc lusiand

by ANC were that the phenomena. vere “real and hot visionary
or Pievitiouws”, that Phe objeets were mogtiy disc-sraped
about tbe gies of mancnede eireratt ead were intelligently
controlled. anv U.S. atptvewo) to descen abrerag’t. of similar
performance would be coGlly, jime-~consuming gm dettimental
to Oleer prejecte. iInvestigadens by AND weuld continue
penting further advice,

Authorid ty wiven to AMO te investigate The Phenesens an. a
priority 2A basis under the code-name Project Sign.
Micimtim clases fisebien was Rees eiubed, Poports were te be
nade quarterly and dete exckenged with titeres ted partievs,

USAP officleally » geparate service.
Project Sign starte officially.

Near-gollision between D023 and UFO pramet ATIC te write
an. Estigete of the Situation,

The Top Secret Eetiiaate wae forwarded te the Pentagon, The
cone lusion that UbO’s were of interplanetary origin was met
acceptable to bin Ain Fore Chief of Svall (General Vandenberg)
Whe LESLoOWs) on demonStrao ve proof not ¢iveumeiaudiad

evidence. ATIO wes w0ebie to crovide UPO hardware or

detailed phevagraphe.

oe l.,is Lipp oy tee Iland Copneration Peplied te the Dipreoter
ér Research and Develousent,. USAT, that if the fig ebjenis
Were inier-planelary Chey would gost likely originate Pred
Mars although intellieent Tide es we know 14 weuld “he mone
cupbed with gurvival than we ere on Harth™. Our pregent
Lechnnolery ennnab. €onteive as to How an. inter-stellar tace
“ould reach Earth, ever though 1. £8 eonceded thal there is
a high probability thet Gatelligent Live dees exiet within
Bay Oo Llight-yeard from Barth,

USAF oPgers Projwet Sign (6 become Project Grudge whieh
Shonld teemineie before the end of 1949,

Vinal peport of Progect Sion (TR«2274~TA of the Techniral
latelligesced Dieteion ANC) pocomnended that ona a
manimuny effori. be devoted to recerling, analyting aad
evaluating peporia, budoon the other hend where Tactual

NAA: A13693, 3092/2/000

os

evidence such a¢ phelegraphe, radar, Phyto) evidence”
and dela om size and shape te involved, every effort
ghonld be made Uo @albleet thie evisiende. Nadio alerts ts
giher oilivery wilte should be mode.

Preject Sign officially becomes Project Urudge. Acceraing
to Hpuelo, Sige persounel we laer volunteered bo leave on
were compelled to Lewve, after Which they were replaced ly
pérgonned willing de-ridigwle (he ¢encept of UFO's. curing
1949, (rudeo personnes did nol Polley up reports,

Secret Technical: Report No. 102 AC 49/15~100 “"Uniderntifiad
Fiying Gbjects ~ Project Grudge"of about GOO pages igaued,
with the cenclveion thet all reporte were the reste) ot
hisidentifienticns, mise hysteria and houses ever thourh
they adwid t6 266 of tHe veparté as bedeg “uiikndwa. Une
Pepott Was declassified 1 Auguet 1982.

27.12.49 Lepartiwent of Defense news release stated that the Aly Foaroa’s
flying saucer project had been terminated,

3,50 Publication of a Pepert, previeusly éleared by the US.
Avery, @eseribing tye tracking of a UO by an. effieced tenn

led by G ander Melaughlin ot the White Sends (wiselle)
proving ground. Frea the tracking data, it was concluded

3
that the UFO require) an extraterrestial erigin.

14.954 On legening that ATIC wes not investigating UPO. repos,
the USAY Director ef Intelligence Qleneral Cabell) ordered
Project Orwige to bo Foevlialicer.. This Wane acted upon ab ones.

2, 10.54 Project Grudge now beaded by Capt. Huppeit.

3.58 Project Orudge veramel Project Blue Book. By thie stage the
steff had built up to BO, eli with Teb Eeeret s2Varances. and
a Higivly qualified peseareh greup of conmsuwliemie provided
experiiee. As part. of Project Bterk, thie research grant
(RAND As a Wossibility) staridd toa tramseribe data dite
IBM eaads for future analyela.

2954.52 Air FPoree Letier 200-5. ordered a11 USAF units te wire UFO
reports direst. te ATIC with «. copy to the Pentegon, Frode
Blue. Book wae peraltied 24 combact any CAAP Wndi direet
allowing Pajild inves igetion.

hae
Ak

June-Aug. $2 During 1948-931 the avereee monthly nusioer of reports was 14
but during dune, Jaby and Aug@ued of 195., the average we
337 ingluding 336 daring July. “Fhe UPO!s were nob only seen
im preater wumbers, oul there wes a gregber number of relieble
wiimesees, Severe sensitive Atemic Koeergy © Sion plane
and defences unite vere euljenled to close egproaches.
Defence cogminicallens were being overlwated end taere were
fears thet U.S. reaction tine e¢aine: enemy action was being
hindered, .

eS

19/26.7.52 Tee eeries «of radar—Visus
Poa

i
AE BA
AS @ Peauwli af tie upsurge of imteresi in @e
military eireles, Vie interplanetary hyboliesis ¢ained Prod
despite official efforts te explain awiy the sagditings.

Lage

2
5

2

ERED OF

S

National Archives of Australia NAA ATB68S.. 3092 /72/000

21,8.52

1417.41.53

L6,2.53

7a3

National Archives of Austra

Be

USAY aturled releasing ATIC preperia to Dbhe UFO deta,
Mejev heybhee, fot peblicewiion. “This was a comtletels
qpspected Chaurce of peliey. The contents of these reports
refaced the puliiic pronouncements mele by the USAR. TA
ee ae P @pGbehmG Agre@ad ‘Lied the albempt to
axplain the Sploevon Sightings ae due te anonalous
propegation covid mob be uppeld.

mont anlentiate to mee. ad AYTTO
LLnBErS review pane) bo deodde of
gher~ bevel pone. af siz selentists.

UlA arranged four govern
j

for three devs as @ pred

recoreeniations Tor a hig

The Office of Seiuntitie Iwlelligesce, CTA, eenavened. in
Washington D.C., @ petel of gi8 selentiete, Dre H.P.
Robertson (Chairman), Luia Alvares, Liegd Berkner, Samdel
A, Geowlemit, Thorn bon pee aml one otwer, After three
days of evidence, & ivo-page seeret report that was
prepared on ine Dourth dey, cencluted that there was ne
ditect threat ta: national securtin: but that there was an
indirect threat to “the erleriy functioning of Phe prober tive
organ? of tag body politic”, Li was necommenile thas
natlloral security agencies showld “strip the PO's af Pas
special siaiua they have been given” and to educete ihe
public accordingly.

CTA ivsued & larger bit ohill secret report on fhe meeting,
SUM Leing the right balf-day s@esions and. outlining paencl
mombers’ individual viewpoints. The lack of artifacts of
cleur extra-terrdstial origin vas a st¢oar ateucent eetinet
accuplance of the en lre-lerrestial hynethesis. The waive tl
agreed with CIA concern thot enemy artifwcts may be
fisidentified by Us. detenca personne], that emergency
reporting eharnele be everledded ard thet the public may
bebone vulaereble be ony Psytheiogical warfare, The public
should. be educain’ (OG lee Dallesns, meleare @fe, and

a policy af “deny should be iviroduced if order ts
reduce public interest. This "training awd debunking"
programne would Ye require) for “a minigun ef ere end one
half to two years”, “Some expanetow of the ATIC eftert
would certeiniy be fequivged to suppert euch a progres
aA prolessional s of Le supported by an adminis tia.
ated) was stig ioc

Section LIL, Title + ef tne doit aray, Navy cand Ace Faree
Publicetiion GIASAP biG) leeielated that services perenne)
talking about 6 sightings Were Linble to 1-10 years geo]
and/or «. fine of wp to eh, 000.

Aix Voree Regulation (APE 200.2) reserves inves tigation
authority from Prejeet Dine Book sor favour ef the aor
Defence Command's 4002 Air Intelligence Service Squedron,
B unit dispersed ever ares commands, a amd trained both far
rapid atcess _ te remote areas and to imterrepate encey
personne |, Ais Poree requires immediate reporting te
evalueie ine “threat, and detailed reporting io geaie4
vechnipew) aneblyeie, All ¥FitGen reterte are te be sent

te USAR Intell ieenes im Washington, mainland reports Piret
going to Aly Delense mond for distribution. to. ‘interested
ioveeti pative ages Eigetrigal teporte ere addressed
ue bola these head rere. end te ATIC. The publie ds. te
be invermed of the results of indivedwal-cuges nis: wher
he gages t if poSiblively idenbifaed Be°n Tamil tae

: NAA: A13603, 3005/2/000

Headquarters USAT Will release oummaries of evaluated
dade to the quulae

9433 When the head of Troject Blue Book departed, the staff wes
reduced to jJusd one edaman (fiest-clase). ALL
ing bramemittion phens- tad bem nerntiel except for
diffraction cameras Which bad been shown ta be us#lede.

Ld BS The distritmiien of 275 dic irerlioni-grating caneras
(200 te U.S. bases and 7S to evorsesas basee) was completed.

LP 894 Atrliae pilets o° 4 meeting ef the Reosevelt Hetel,
Hoélivwood were eeerdmiohy silitery brbelligeice veiug
JANAD 146 toa agree bo not baforming the publiie of tleiy
sightings, ami efnfine Lieiy miporiing te affLebal ¢hannels.

L543. 54 USAY Chief of Gtalf, General Nethan Twining, stated "The
best prains in the Adr Force are working on thie provlem
of Unidentified Flere Objects, trying to sclive this
riddle”, General Twiding, was not referring to Froject
Blue. Deak.

LOO 94 Deputy Commander of Delelligenen ad ATIC, Gelanel O'Mara,
statei that more than a thousand peaple Were Working on
the problem.

Sy DS William FP. bear, Chairmen of Lear Inc., Senta Monica stated

Lael because of Diving sencers, sericue efforts were bein

made in the U.S. @o rave the existences of andi~-gravi tat.

fobees.

- ae

anal

23,8555 Rewealed tyet the U.S. Gowernment had daken ever the
Canadian Avra ‘flying seucer’ progect. This was a eireular
Berotoil powere by 76ts end desired Lo texne~off and Land
verlically, hover, Vravel at L300 mpl aml change diroclion
rapidiy. Tne deeten specifiewtions fer pevfornaice and
shape were clearley darectiv telated «0 UFO reporting. ae
projec’ Wag Slorae@d if LORl-52 end in 1834 after 9400,000
had been spent, the Canediem Government withdrew Lis
financial Weeki Waem dhe 0.5. ageuwred conbrol over the
provpoe. if lmpewet, @ bigs level of securiig, ore
even Canadian offieluals from igepecting the premeiees. A
bhe press pelewse meeting on 25 October 1995 Por the Special
Report Ne. 14, thotwerapes of a dreeing of the proposed
version shoved @ teypieal Dladae diese.

GRE. a

VON Sig

25 eb55 Release of Proieet Bive Pook Special Report Na. 24 dated
a i :
o Mey 1955. The Gepert was originally esapiled by Preseat

Blae Pook puscureh canbultunie wie anaiyeed 3.200 reterta

éut of 4,000 received by the end of 1952. These reselts
were used to Uriel thee Jioberbeong panel ip aen, L993, Te
this, basic 316 page report, © 3 page egal bed "stustaary”

i hee been added dealing mainly wis the 945-559 merited wend

i dismiselag UVO"s a8 mainly mieidentifiemtions, The more
uncomfortable eonc lusilone af the WA Teper’ Vere wtoncealeds
QOnia LOO copies of the main pepor) Mere dietrivuted on a

ros irioved fon-Tbulllig bosiea (ihe enly Australagn cops wos
destroyed by the HAAP fa £050) whereas eagles of the
misleading "sunmaie” wire freely avallable te press and
publ ie .

National Arch! ives of Australia NAA AI 3G9S: GOC2ZTHO0G

Coase

re

54665

6.66

20.666

199,66

& 10, 66
29.708

a 69

LT, 12. 69
96/91 .12,64

National Archives of Australia

Fives sanitised version of Rebertaen (abort) report relessed.

Inepesior~General of Aig Force cireulates «2 bed
“UEOG’s Sericua Pusiness” in an effert to stimulate and
ispveve the reperting of UFO's, Investigniing effbeers

are be 6 e4ydoom) with Belper couiters as well a8 | Cameoti,

binotulers aed saepling containers.

JANAP 14650 iovokes eaplonege lows 1o prevent the revans ing
of UFO date.

Following the Auevet peak of UFO activity, the USAP OLLice
ef Tafermsties requests « review of Preteet Blue Baas

USAF Seientifie A¢visery Board Ad Nee Committe: peviewnd
Project Glue Book. Although the Uommi tice cone idered. mest
aunineniifieds ware dué to inadequate analysis, they aise

accused Blae Hoek af identifying objects “when the evidence
Ee

céllected wie 160 mésere ar tow indefinite”. Tt vas

fecommended that University centracts be made and toed mone

seientificesally trained investigators be used.

U.S. Gengress House Committed an Armed Services recasunenis

that Project Blue Beek reperis be investigated by University

eanbract.

De Mc Depald readea Eebertesn (eomplete) report which bad beer

declassified under La vear rule.

foperteon reper) reclassified. Second sanitiaed vers len
Lgeswed.

AER 80-17 replaces AFR 200-2 aud tranefers responeibility
from davtelligenee bo Research and Deve lopment. Para Le a?
states “Air Feces echelons receiving suspected of go tua)
UPO meterial will seferuard i: te prevent any defacing of
alterations which might reduce ite value far intelligence
@kaminatlion aml amalyveie”,

Gontract signed with Galeradd Univerei iy.

U.S. Congress Howse Cometitee on Setence and As trom ties
held « one-day syepoesium on UPO's a) Which many prominest
acleniists testified in Tayvenr of UFO's being real aryl
requiring inbernatvionad iaveatigatiom.

Condon report published. Caondon's eonclusions were neat
Supporied by the steal? conelusiona.

J. Allen Hynokls ecantract #6 Selentifie Canseltent on UPors
to the USAP Project Blue Buck was not feneved (after 21 year

Projec. Dine Dook Slused Gewn.

he American Aeeociation far the Advarcement of Setence

Po
ae

meb at Basten to discuss UEG's One evloome was a Pescluticn

Ps
avoes liver foo iiwe Beok data to be release,

NAA, A13693, 3092/2/000