a a te te em

Tenn sf ) sn ceteenibetenticbe 9 ctae qeenitnmiinbklese 0 tients -ermeeee 6 <*" —Peee

Approved for Release 2026

t
V

a
Den ay on tag wea SS RET ADO OEE 1 eT erBe.

Intelligence Information Report

Ths motel contains information afiecang the Notional Delonte of the United Shots wit
the of the Eiplonoge Lows, Title 18, USC. Secs. 799 ancl 794, the Wonwnlsden
or revela of which in ony manner te on unovihorized perion is prohibited by lew.

a

DIRECTORATE OF

~~ | -soeraptierinet— |
ee oat “a an Soe *

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

USSR REPOFTNO. 00-8-321/07709-T72 -
Speculative Paper by N Kardashev and DATE DistR. §-«:10 Apr 72

A Sakharov on Charged Mass in Space ~ 7s
at Conference on Origins of Life, NO. PAGES 2

Armenia, 6-8 September 1971/Low

Scientific Level of Other Soviet REFERENCES DCS Case 57,026

Papers

DATE OF INFO. 6-8 September 1971

PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE Yerevan/6-8 September 1971

SOURCE
ae

5

4

3

2

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

US citizen This report consists
of edited abstracts from a letter received from a reliable colicacu
who attended the Yerevan Conference.

At the Conference on the Origins of Life in Yerevan, Armenia, SSR,

6-8 September 1971, N S Kardashev, Institute for Space Research, Moscov,
read an interesting but highly speculative paper he had prepared on
peneral relativity and the possibility of a body collapsing into a
black hole in space. His co-author was the internationally famous
theoretical physicist, Andrei D Sakharov. Kardashev is very much like
his suverior and former teacher at the Institute, I S Shklovskiy, in

his approach to scientific problems. Ile is not afraid to speculate in
his effort to find a solution.

The Kardashev~Sakharov paper concerned the authors' study of what happens
when a charged mass or body collapses in space. Kardashev stated that,
if it vere not charged, the mass would just collapse past the point of
gravitational singularity and be gone forever. In other words, the mass
would close in on itself and have no more contact with the outside

world. The Soviets speculated on what would happen if the mass were
charged. ‘They stated that then the mass would be able to bounce. It
would collapse but bounce back out. However, the mass will come back
into a different part of space time.

After his presentation, Kardashev told a US attendee that Sakharov was
mostly interested in this charged mass phenomenon study because it in-
dicates that the structure of space may be much more complicated than
is presently thought. Kardashev was interested in the study from the
viewpoint of what implications it has for astrophysics, provided the
basic physics of the phenomenon is correct. The US attendee felt the
authors’ speculation was a little fantastic and they had taken off in
a rother wild way. However, he believed their paper was grounded in
good and sound physics.

7*NW oO

t
di
t

Tete ee

ne a rt es te ear er ne a a Se my

iw &

‘The US attendee considers Kardashev to be very competent technically

and further to be very self-possessed. He recalled on incident in the i
spring of 1971 when Kardashev, L I Matveyenko and he visited Academician :
Lev Artsimovicn, secretary of the Academy's Department of General

Physics and Astronomy. Matveyenko, Institute for Cosmic Research, is

a Communist Party member and very expert in political matters. He was

almost cringing in Artsimovich's presence whereas Kardashev was cool

and confident in his businesselike discuss‘ons with the senior Academi-

cian.

In general, the scientific level of most of the Soviet papers nt this
Conference was not very high. One little known Soviet [source could not
recall his name) gave a very naive paper on the detectability of planets.
Another Soviet, who was a member of a committee the USSR has established
to investigate unusual phenomena, in other words, flying saucers, gave

a@ serious talk which was actually very humorous. His approach was,
"Well, of course, we know there isn't anything to this alleged phenome-
non (flying saucers), but on the other hand---." During this talk
Shklovskiy and other Soviets joked and laughed and obviously did not
take the speaker's remarks seriously. Shklovskiy remarked later te a

US attendee that the "flying saucer committee" consists of many poli-
ticians, theorists, historians and similar type people. It has little
if any scientific talent.

Shklovskiy gave a general, entertaining talk on wome interesting but
unimportant subject. Vitaliy L Ginzburg, one of the leading astronomers
in the USSR, also gave oa talk on the basis of physic:1 theory, that is,
the identification and comparison of fundamental assunotions in physics.
Ginzburr has a first rate mind and is sounder in his physics knowledge
than Ghklovskiy. Ginzburg thinks realistically, which wa: shown in ni:
answer to a US attendee's question about the Conference. “he Soviet

was asked whether the Conference was worthwhile in that it -.as mostly
devoted to theoretical subjects, very remote from tangible goals.
Ginzburg said, ‘Well, if it helps to build up support for the Soviet
reseorchers to ect new astronomical equipment, then certainly the Con-
Terence makes sense."

- end -