FORM Approved for Release 2026 Under Section 1842 of the National 4, sais ~~t424 —
4 2290
Authorizati6én aAc® for Fiscal Year 2024 Ie OF

a

(PLACE FORM 490 HERE)

OFFICIAL
RECORD _

in accc ° Ad
additior. Cope ope a |

Records

RETURN IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE TO THE
CIA ARCHIVES AND RECORDS CENTER

b-64 2250
re

(PLACE FORM 490 HERE)

OFFICIAL
RECORD

~ COPY

WARNING

The attached document(s) must be safeguarded. It is the
Agency’s Official Historical Record and must be preserved
in accordance with the Federal Records Act of 1950. For
additional information, call the Chief, CIA Archives and

Records Center, extension 2468.

RETURN IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE TO THE
CIA ARCHIVES AND RECORDS CENTER

fsa ten .
em cge 0 somal

4

oo

90

PROJECT BLO of 8 BOPK

SPECIAL REPORT NO.14

(ANALYSIS OF REPORTS OF UNIDENTIFIED AERIAL OBJECTS)

c
5 MAY 1955
AER 1903 6)

AIR TECHNICAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER

WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR. FORCE BASE
OHIO

Sot

Copy No.

he ill ea Lr
“ , ene

PROJECT BLUE BOOK

SPECIAL REPORT NO. 14

(ANALYSIS OF REPORTS OF UNIDENTIFIED AERIAL OBJECTS)

PROJECT NO, 10073

5 MAY 1955

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(AFR 190-16)

AIR TECHNICAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
OHIO

No copyright material is contained in this publication,

Figure
Figure

Figure

Figure
Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

2

3

4

5

6

7

11

TABLE OF CONTENTS

SUMMARY . 2. 6 we eee ee te
INTRODUCTION . 2. 6 2 0 ee ee ee
ORIGINAND NATURE OF DATA . 1... ee ee ee ee ee
REDUCTION OF DATA TO MECHANIZED COMPUTATION FORM .. .. . . . .
Questionnaire . . 06 2 1 ee ee ee ee
Coding System and Work Sheet . 2. 2. 2 «© © © © © © © © © © «© «© «© 6
Identification of Working Papers. . 2. 2. 2. 6 6 6 © e © © © © © te ew
Evaluation of Individual Reports. . 2. 2. e+ 1 6 + 8 e # ee ee ee

ANALYSIS OF THE DATA. . 2. 6 2 6 ee ee ee

Frequency and Percentage Distributions by Characteristics . . . » « «6 « .«

Advanced Study of the Data 2. 2. 6. 2 6 8 we ee te we we ew

Position of the Sun Relative to the Observer, . . 2. . © © © © 2 «© «
Statistical Chi Square Test . 2. 2. 2 2 © «© 6 © © «© © © © © «@

The "Flying Saucer" Model 2. 2. 6. we ee ee et we ee

APPENDIX A. TABULATION OF FREQUENCY AND PERCENTAGE
DISTRIBUTIONS BY CHARACTERISTICS . 2. «© 2 2 6 6 «© © © © © ee ee

APPENDIX B. WORKING PAPER FORMS . . . . 2. 6 6 6 6 © 6 @ we # ee

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
Frequency of Sightings by Year for Object, Unit, and All Sightings oe ee
Distribution of Evaluations of Object, Unit, and All Sightings for All Years.

Distribution of Object Sightings by Evaluation for All Years With Comparisons
of Each Year for Each Evaluation Group. . . . 2. 2. 6 + 2 «© 6 «

Distribution of Object Sightings by Evaluation for All Years and Each Year .

Distribution of Object Sightings by Evaluation Within Months for All Years. ..

Distribution of Object Sightings by Certain and Doubtful Evaluations for
All Years and Each Year. . 2. 2. 6 we ew we ww te

Frequency of Object Sightings and Unknown Object Evaluations by :
Months, 1947-1952... 6 6 ww we te ee

Distribution of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups With
Evaluation Distributions for Each Group. . . . . 5 «© «© «© © «© «© «

Distribution of Object Sightings Among the Four Sighting Reliability
Groups for All Years and Each Year . . . 2. 6 2 6 1 6 @ ee ew

Distribution of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, Segregated
by Military and Civilian Observers, With Evaluation Distribution

Distribution of Object Sightings by Reported Colors of Object(s) With
Evaluation Distribution for Each Color Group . . . . 6. 6 6 ee es

Distribution of Object Sightings by Number of Objects Seen per Sighting
With Evaluation Distribution for Each Group . . . 1. 6 6 «© «© «© «© ef

Distribution of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting With Evaluation
Distribution for Each Duration Group. .

ar
wr
ble

95

255

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure
Figure

Figure

Figure
Figure
Figure
Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

Figure

20

21

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

33

37

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
, (Continued)

Distribution of Object Sightings by Months Among the Eight Duration
Groups for All Years . 2. 6. 1. 6 8 ee ee ee lw et

Distribution of Object Sightings by Shape of Object(s) Reported With
Evaluation Distribution for Each Shape Group . . . 1 6 6 6 6 ee ee

Distribution of Object Sightings by Reported Speed of Object(s) With
Evaluation Distribution for Each Speed Group . . 1. 1. 1 1 6 8 ew ee

Distribution of All Sightings by Observer Location for All Years and Each Year . .
Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Color, 1947-1952 . . . .

Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Number of Objects
per Sighting, 1947-1952 2. 6 6 ww we ee ee ee

Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Speed, 1947-1952 . . . .
Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Duration, 1947-1952 . .

Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Shape, 1947-1952 . . . .
Comparison of Known and Unknown Object Sightings by Light Brightness, 1947-1952

Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Astronomical
Versus Total Object Sightings Less Astronomical. . . . 2. «© 2 «© «© «© «© «

Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Aircraft
Versus Total Object Sightings Less Aircraft . . . 2. . «6 6 «© © © © w@

Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Balloon
Versus Total Object Sightings Less Balloon. . . . 2. 2. 2. 6 «© © © © @

Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Insufficient
Information Versus Total Object Sightings Less Insufficient Information . . . .

Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Other
Versus Total Object Sightings Less Other . . 2. 2. 2. 2. 1 1 6 ee ew ew

Comparison of Monthly Distribution of Object Sightings Evaluated as Unknown
Versus Total Object Sightings Less Unknown . . . 2. 2. 6 1 we te ew ew ew

Characteristics Profiles of Object Sightings by Total Sample, Known Evaluations,
and Individual Known Evaluations, With Unknown Evaluations Superimposed . . .

Frequency of Object, Unit, and All Sightings Within the U. S., 1947-1952, by
Subdivisions of One Degree of Latitude and Longitude . . . . . 1. 2 6 ee

Distribution of Object Sightings by Evaluation for the Twelve Regional Areas of
the U. S., With the Strategic Areas Located . . . 2. 2. 6 6 + ee we a

Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
Central East Region . 2. 1. 1 7 ee we ew ee we we ee ee

Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
Central Midwest Region . . 2. 6 2 6 1 6 ew we ee ee

Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
Central Farwest Region . 2. 2. 1 1 6 ew we we ew ee te ek

Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
South Midwest Region . . . . . 1. 2. ee ew

Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
South West Region . . . . . ,

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

51

52

53

Figure 38
Figure 39
Figure 40
Figure 41
Table I
Table I
Table IT
Table IV
Table V
Table VI
Table VII
Table VIII
Table IX
Table X
Table XI
Table XII
Table XIII

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
(Continued)

Comparison of Evaluation of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the
South Farwest Region . 2. 2. 2. 6 6 6 © © ei e © He we ew ew

Diagram of a Celestial Sphere. 2. 2. 2. 1. 6 2 2 + 6 6 e we ew

Frequency of Object Sightings by Angle of Elevation of the Sun, Intervals

Frequency of Object Sightings by Local Sun Time, Intervals of One Hour
Object Sightings . 2... 2. 2 6 ew ew ew ewe ew
Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Color . .
Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Number.

Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Shape . .

Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Duration of Observation

Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Speed . .

Chi Square Test of Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Light Brightness

Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Color

Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Number.

Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Shape

Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of
Duration of Observation . 6. 6. 6 2 6 6 8 8 we 8 we we ee

Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Speed

Chi Square Test of Revised Knowns Versus Unknowns on the Basis of Light Brightness.

v and vi

54

56

57

59

60

62

63

64

65

66

67

70

71

72

73
74

75

SUMMARY

Reports of unidentified aerial objects (popularly termed "flying
saucers" or "flying discs") have been received by the U.S. Air Force
since mid-1947 from many and diverse sources. Although there was no
evidence that the unexplained reports of unidentified objects constituted
a threat to the security of the U.S., the Air Force determined that all
reports of unidentified aerial objects should be investigated and evaluated
to determine if “flying saucers'' represented technological developments

not known to this country.

In order to discover any pertinent trend or pattern inherent in the
data, and to evaluate or explain any trend or pattern found, appropriate
methods of reducing these data from reports of unidentified aerial objects
to a form amenable to scientific appraisal were employed. In general, the
original data upon which this study was based consisted of impressions and

' interpretations of apparently unexplainable events, and seldom contained

reliable measurements of physical attributes. This subjectivity of the data
presented a’ major limitation to the drawing of significant conclusions, but
did not invalidate the application of scientific methods of study.

The reports received by the U.S. Air Force on unidentified aerial
objects were reduced to IBM punched-card abstracts of the data by means
of logically developed forms and standardized evaluation procedures.
Evaluation of sighting reports, a crucial step in the preparation of the data
for statistical treatment, consisted of an appraisal of the reports and the
subsequent categorization of the object or objects described in each report.
A detailed description of this phase of the study stresses the careful
attempt to maintain complete objectivity and consistency.

Analysis of the refined and evaluated data derived from the original
reports of sightings consisted of (1) a systematic attempt to ferret out any
distinguishing characteristics inherent in the data of any of their segments,
(2) a concentrated study of any trend or pattern found, and (3).an attempt
to determine the probability that any of the UNKNOWNS represent observa-
tions of technological developments not known to this country.

The first step in the analysis of the data revealed the existence of
certain apparent similarities between cases of objects definitely identified
and those not identified. Statistical methods of testing when applied indicated
a low probability that these apparent similarities were significant. An
attempt to determine the probability that any of the UNKNOWNS represented
observations of technological developments not known to this country necessi-
tated a thorough re-examination and re-evaluation of the cases of objects not
originally identified; this led to the conclusion that this probability was very
small.

The special study which resulted in this report (Analysis of Reports
of Unidentified Aerial Objects, 5 May 1955) started in 1953. To provide the
study group with a complete set of files, the information cut-off date was
established as of the end of 1952. It will accordingly be noted that the
statistics contained in all charts and tables in this report are terminated

vii

with the year 1952. In these charts, 3201 cases have been used.

As the study progressed, a constant program was maintained for
the purpose of making comparisons between the current cases received
after 1 January 1953, and those being used for the report. This was done
in order that any change or significant trend which might arise from ,
current developments could be incorporated in the summary of this report.

The 1953 and 1954 cases show a general and expected trend of
increasing percentages in the finally identified categories. They also show
decreasing percentages in categories where there was insufficient informa-
tion and those where the phenomena could not be explained. This trend had
been anticipated in the light of improved reporting and investigating pro-

- cedures. oo

-Official reports on hand at the end of 1954 totaled 4834. Of these,
425 were produced in 1953 and 429 in 1954. These 1953 and 1954 indi-
vidual reports (a total of 854), were evaluated on the same basis as were
those received before the end of 1952. The results are as follows:

. Balloons - 16%
Aircraft - 20%
Astronomical ~- 25%
Other - 13%

‘Insufficient Info - 17%
Unknown - 9% -

As the study of the current cases progressed, .it became increasingly
obvious that if reporting and investigating procedures could be further improved,
the percentages of those cases which contained insufficient information and
those remaining unexplained would be greatly reduced. The key to a higher
percentage of solutions appeared to be in rapid ''on the spot" investigations
by trained personnel. On the basis of this, a revised program was estab-
lished by AF Reg. 200-2 Subject: "Unidentified Flying Objects Reporting"
(Short Title: UFOB) dated 12 August 1954.

This new program, which had begun to show marked results before
January 1955, provided primarily that the 4602d Air Intelligence Service
Squadron (Air Defense Command) would carry out all field investigations.
This squadron has sufficient units and is so deployed as to be able to arrive
"on the spot'' within a very short time after a report is received. After
treatment by the 4602d AISS, all information is supplied to the Air Technical
Intelligence Center for final evaluation. This cooperative program has re-
sulted, since 1 January 1955, in reducing the insufficient information cases
to 7% and the unknown cases to 3%, of the totals.

The period 1 January 1955 to 5 May 1955 accounted for 131 unidentified
aerial object reports received. Evaluation percentages of these are as follows:

viii

Balloons - 26%
Aircraft - 21%
Astronomical - 23%
Other - 20%
Insufficient Info - 7%
Unknown - 3%

All available data were included in this study which was prepared by
a panel of scientists both in and out of the Air Force. On the basis of this
study it is believed that all the unidentified aerial objects could have been
explained if more complete observational data had been available. Insofar
as the reported aerial objects which still remain unexplained are concerned,
there exists little information other than the impressions and interpretations
of their observers. As these impressions and interpretations have been
replaced by the use of improved methods of investigation and reporting, and

-by scientific analysis, the number of unexplained cases has decreased rapidly

towards the vanishing point.

Therefore, on the basis of this evaluation of the information, it is
considered to be highly improbable that reports of unidentified aerial objects
examined in this study represent observations of technological developments
outside of the range of present-day scientific knowledge. It is emphasized
that there has been a complete lack of any valid evidence of physical ‘matter
in. any case of a reported unidentified aerial object.

INTRODUCTION

In June, 1947, Kenneth Arnold, a Boise, Idaho, businessman and
private pilot, publicly reported the now-famous sighting of a chainlike
formation of disc-shaped objects near Mount Rainier, Washington. Result-
ing newspaper publicity of this incident caught the public interest, and,
shortly thereafter, a rash of reports of unidentified aerial objects spawned
the term "flying saucers", During the years since 1947, many reports of
unidentified aerial objects have been received by the Air Force from many
and diverse sources, .

The unfortunate term "flying saucer", or "flying disc'', because of
its widespread and indiscriminate use, requires definition. Many defini-
tions have been offered, one of the best being that originated by Dr. J.
Allen Hynek, Director of the Emerson McMillin Observatory of The Ohio
State University, who has taken a scientific interest in the problem of
unidentified aerial objects since 1949, Dr. Hynek's definition of the term
is "any aerial phenomenon or sighting that remains unexplained to the
viewer at least long enough for him to write a report about it"(1), Dr, Hynek,
elaborating on his definition, says, "Each flying saucer, so defined, has
associated with it a probable lifetime, It wanders in the field of public in-
spection like an electron in a field of ions, until 'captured! by an explana-
tion which puts an end to its existence as a 'flying saucer’ n1( 1) .

This definition would be applicable to any and all of the sightings
which remained unidentified throughout this study. However, the term
"flying saucers" shall be used hereafter in this report to mean a novel,
airborne phenomenon, a manifestation that is not a part of or readily ex-
plainable by the fund of scientific knowledge known to be possessed by the
Free World. This would include such items as natural phenomena that are
not yet completely understood, psychological phenomena, or intruder air-
craft of a type that may be possessed by some source in large enough
numbers so that more than one independent mission may have been flown
and reported. Thus, these phenomena are of the type which should have
been observed and reported more than once.

Since 1947, public interest in the subject of unidentified aerial objects
fluctuated more or less within reasonable limits until the summer of 1952,
when the frequency of reports of sightings reached a peak, possibly stimu-
lated by several articles on the subject in leading popular magazines,

Early in 1952, the Air Force's cumulative study and analysis of
reported sightings indicated that the majority of reports could be accounted
for as misinterpretations of known objects (such as meteors, balloons, or
aircraft), a few as the result of mild hysteria, and a very few as the result
of unfamiliar meteorological phenomena and light aberrations. However,

(1) Hynek, J. A., "Unusual Aerial Phenomena", Journal of the Optical Society of America, 48 (4),
pp 311-314, April, 1953. ,

1

a significant number of fairly complete reports by reliable observers re-
mained unexplained, Although no evidence existed that unexplained reports
of sightings constituted a physical threat to the security of the U. S., in
March, 1952, the Air Force decided that all reports of unidentified

aerial objects should be investigated and evaluated to determine if 'flying
saucers" represented technological developments not known to this country,

Originally, the problem involved the preparation and analysis of about
1,300 reports accumulated by the Air Force between 1947 and the end of
March, 1952. During the course of the work, the number of reports sub-
mitted for analysis and evaluation more than tripled, the result of the un- .
precedented increase in observations during 1952. Accordingly, this study
is based on a number of reports considered to be large enough for a pre-
liminary statistical analysis, approximately 4, 000 reports.

This study was undertaken primarily to categorize the available
reports of sightings and to determine the probability that any of the reports
of unidentified aerial objects represented observations of "flying saucers",
With full cognizance of the quality of the data available for study, yet with
an awareness of the proportions this subject has assumed at times in the |
public mind, this work was undertaken with all the seriousness accorded
to a straightforward scientific investigation. In order to establish the
probability that any of the reports of unidentified aerial objects represented
observations of "flying saucers", it was necessary to make an attempt to
answer the question 'What is a 'flying saucer'?", However, it must be
emphasized that this was only incidental to the primary purpose of the
study, the determination of the probability that any of the reports of un-
identified aerial objects represented observations of ''flying saucers", as
defined on Page 1. ~ :

The basic technique for this study consisted of reducing the available
data to a form suitable for.mechanical manipulation, a prerequisite for the
application of preliminary statistical methods. One of International
Business Machine Corporation's systems was chosen as the best available
mechanical equipment. .

The reduction of data contained in sighting reports into a form suit-
able for transfer to IBM punched cards was extremely difficult and time
consuming,

For this study a panel of consultants was formed, consisting of both
experts within and outside ATIC. During the course of the work, guidance
and advice were received from the panel. The professional experience
available from the panel covered major scientific fields and numerous
specialized fields.

All records and working papers of this study have been carefully
preserved in an orderly fashion suitable for ready reference. These

2

ee |

records include condensations of all individual sighting reports, and the
IBM cards used in various phases of the study.

ORIGIN AND NATURE OF DATA

Reports of sightings were received by the U. S. Air Force from a.
representative cross section of the population of the U. S., and varied
widely in completeness and quality. Included were reports from reputable
scientists, housewives, farmers, students, and technically trained mem-
bers of the Armed Forces, Reports varied in length from a few sentences
stating that a "flying saucer" had been sighted, to those containing thou-
sands of words, including description, speculation, and advice on how to
handle the "problem of the 'flying saucers'", Some reports were of high
quality, conservative, and as complete.as the observer could make them;
a few originated from people confined to mental institutions. A critical
examination of the reports revealed, however, that a high percentage of
them was submitted by serious people, mystified by what they had seen and
motivated by patriotic responsibility.

Three principal sources of reports were noted in the preliminary
review of the data, The bulk of the data arrived at ATIC through regular
military channels, from June, 1947, until the middle of 1952.

A second type of data consisted of letters reporting sightings sent by
civilian observers directly to ATIC. Most of these direct communications
were dated subsequent-to April 30, 1952, and are believed to be the result
of a suggestion by a popular magazine that future reports be directed to the
Air Technical Intelligence Center. As could be expected, a large number
of letters was received following this publicity.

A third type of data was that contained in questionnaire forms com-
pleted by the observer himself. A questionnaire form, developed during
the course of this study, was mailed by ATIC to a selected group of writers
of direct letters with the request that the form be completed and returned.
Approximately 1,000 responses were received by ATIC.

In general, the data were subjective, consisting of qualified estimates
of physical characteristics rather than of precise measurements. Further-
more, most of the reports were not reduced to written form immediately.
The time between sighting and report varied from one day to several years.
Both of these factors introduced an element of doubt concerning the validity
of the original data, and increased its subjectivity. This was intensified by
the recognized inability of the average individual to estimate speeds, dis-
tances, and sizes of objects in the air with any degree of accuracy. In
spite of these limitations, methods of statistical analysis of such reports in
sufficiently large groups are valid, The danger lies in the possibility of

3

forgetting the subjectivity of the data at the time that conclusions are
drawn from the analysis. It must be emphasized, again and again, that any
conclusions contained in this report are based NOT on facts, but on what
many observers thought and estimated the true facts to be.

Altogether, the data for this study consisted of approximately 4, 000
reports of sightings of unidentified aerial objects. The majority were re-
ceived through military channels or in the form of observer-completed
questionnaires; a few were accepted in the form of direct letters from un-
-questionably reliable sources, Sightings made between June, 1947, and
December, 1952, were considered for this study. Sightings alleged to have
occurred prior to 1947 were not considered, since they were not reported
to official sources until after public interest in ''flying saucers" had been
stimulated by the popular press.

REDUCTION OF DATA TO MECHANIZED COMPUTATION FORM

As received by the Air Technical Intelligence Center, the sighting |
reports were not in a form suitable for even a quasi-scientific study. A
preliminary review of the data indicated the need for standardized interro-
gation procedures and supplemental forms for the reduction of currently
held and subsequently acquired data to a form amenable to scientific

appraisal,

The plan for reduction of the data to usable form consisted of a pro-
gram of development comprising four major steps: (1) a systematic listing
of the factors necessary to evaluate the observer and his report, and to
identify the unknown object observed;.(2) a standard scheme for the trans-
fer of data to a mechanized computation system; (3) an orderly means of
relating the original data to all subsequent forms; and (4) a consistent pro-
cedure for the identification of the phenomenon described by the original

data,

Questionnaire

The first reports received by ATIC varied widely in completeness
and quality, Air Force Letter 200-5(2) and Air Force Form 112(1) were
attempts to fix responsibility for and improve the quality of the reports of
sightings. To coordinate past efforts and to provide standardization for the

(1) A modified Air Force Form 112 lists pertinent questions to be answered in regard to an unidentified -object
sighting. , ,

(2) Air Force Letter 200-5 places responsibility with the Air Force for the investigation, reporting, and
analysis of unidentified aerial objects. This letter is dated 29 April 1952.

future, it was imperative to develop a questionnaire form listing the factors
necessary for evaluation of the observer and his report, and identification

of the unknown objects. In addition, it was decided that such a questionnaire
should be designed to serve as an interrogator's guide, and as a form for .
the observer himself to complete when personal interrogation was not possi-
ble or practicable. oe .

Ideally, a questionnaire for the purposes required should contain
questions pertaining to all technical details considered to be essential for
the statistical approach, and should serve to obtain a maximum of informa-
tion from the average individual who had made a sighting in the past or
would be likely to be reporting sightings in the future. Besides these dis-
crete facts, an integrated written description of a sighting would be re-
quired, thus enabling the reported facts of the sighting to be corroborated.
Also, a narrative description might allow subtle questions to be answered
concerning the observer's ability, such as indirect questions that would .
reveal his reasoning ability, suggestibility, and general mental attitude.
As a whole, then, the information contained in a questionnaire should make
possible the classification and evaluation of the sighting, the rating of the
observer, the probability of accuracy of reported facts, and the identifica-
tion of what was reported by the observer as unidentified.

During the course of this project, three questionnaire forms were
developed, each intended to be an improved revision of the one preceding.
The improvements were suggested and confirmed by members of the panel
of consultants connected with this project.

The original form was evolved by the panel of consultants as their
first work on this project. It was intended to allow the start of the reduc-
tion of reports to discrete data, and was immediately subjected to exten-
sive review and revision by the panel. The revised (second) form was
subjected to a trial test before adoption. ATIC sent a copy to observers
reporting sightings, with the request that the form be completed and re-
turned, Of the first 300 questionnaires returned during July and August,
1952, 168 were analyzed by a consulting psychologist. On the basis of this
analysis, plus the experience gained in working with past reports, the final
form of the questionnaire — the U. S. Air Force Technical Information
Sheet — was evolved. Copies of the three forms of the questionnaire, in
the order of their development, are shown as Exhibits Bl], B2, and B3 in
Appendix B.

In order to implement the transcription of data from past sighting
reports, each succeeding form was put to use as soon as it was developed
and approved, Accordingly, experience was obtained with each form in
relation to past data, an important factor in the improvement of the quality
and completeness of the later reports included in this study.

Coding System and Work Sheet

The reduction of non-numerical data to numerical form is mandatory
in the machine handling of data. Thus,. the selection of the IBM punched-
card system for analysis of data forced the adoption of a master coding
plan. Since it was impracticable to transfer detailed data of an exact
nature from the questionnaire to the IBM card, an intermediate transfer
form, coordinated with the master code, was necessary.

The master coding plan was evolved during the early stages of the
preliminary analysis of data, and was reviewed by the panel of consultants
before use, It was recognized that this system of coding would be the
heart of the analysis, that is, the completeness of the facility for trans-
lation of data could make or break the study. Accordingly, every conceiv-
able factor that might influence the identification of unidentified aerial
objects was included, together with a wide range of variations within each
factor. The original coding system (with minor corrections) was used
throughout the translation of the original data with marked success. A copy
of this system, called CODES, is enclosed as Exhibit B4, Appendix B.

To facilitate the preparation of the punched-card abstract, an inter-
mediate form called the WORK SHEET (later, the CARD BIBLE) was
developed. Referenced to both the data from the questionnaire and the sys-
tem of report identification, the WORK SHEET permitted an orderly
transcription of data simultaneously by several people. In conjunction
with the CODES, the WORK SHEET was used during the reduction of the
original data to code form necessary for transfer to punched cards. A
sample is included as Exhibit B5, Appendix B.

After the analysis was under way, it became apparent that the me-
chanics of machine processing could be improved by incorporating in the
IBM card system group classifications of certain factors requiring more
than one column for discrete expression, In addition, the inclusion of
certain data relating to the evaluation and bearing of the sun with respect
to the observer was considered necessary. Finally, a critical examination
of certain segments of the data indicated the need for the definition of a
new factor relating to the maneuvers of the object or objects sighted.

Prior to the start of the analytical study, it had been assumed that a com-
bination of stated factors would, by inference, define the maneuver pattern,

All these additions have been incorporated in a revised set of CODES
and CARD BIBLE that are illustrated as Exhibits B6 and B7, Appendix B.
However, at the time that the maneuver factor was determined to be criti-
cal, it was physically impracticable to make the required definitions and
re-evaluate the original.data, Therefore, no code for maneuverability has
been included in the CODES, CARD BIBLE, or IBM cards.

Identification of Working Papers

The actual reduction of data to IBM punched-card form presented a
problem of mass transfer of figures by several workers, Recognizing that
an orderly system of relating the original data to the questionnaire, the
WORK SHEET, and the IBM card was imperative, a scheme of SERIAL
NUMBERS was developed to answer this need.

The first data consisted of a series of letter-file folders identified by
the year and location of the sighting or sightings they contained. The num-
ber of reports of sightings ina single folder varied from 1 to over 20.
Under these conditions, there was a great possibility for incorrect tran-
scription of data, duplication of transcription, or misplacement of inter-
mediate forms. Further, it was considered desirable to relate all sightings
of the same object or objects to one another, The concept of a four-digit
serial number (major), followed by a two-digit subserial number (minor),
was adequate to fulfill these requirements.

To expedite handling of the data, temporary serial numbers were
assigned until each report had been evaluated and the phenomenon had been
placed in a category of identification. The use of temporary serial num-
bers permitted the consolidation of duplicate reports from apparently
diverse sources, such as a teletype message and an Air Force Form 112.
However, this consolidation was made ONLY when it could be proved con-
clusively that the sources of the two documents were one and the same,
Factors of the observer's location, date and time of observation, descrip-
tion of the phenomenon, and finally, the name of the observer were con-
sidered, In this manner, the assignment of major serial and minor sub-
serial numbers in continuous series was made only to the reports accepted
for the statistical study. It is believed that the reports accepted represent
unique and unduplicated instances of sightings.

In the establishment of the serial-number system, it was necessary
to define certain terms,’ so that a standard interpretation could be achieved.
The terms and corresponding definitions were:

OBSERVER -— Any witness reporting to a proper authority that
he had seen unidentified aerial objects.

SIGHTING — The report or group of reports of the same
observed phenomenon that remained unidenti-
fied to the observer or observers, at least
until reported,

SINGLE OBSERVATION — A SIGHTING consisting of a single
report from (1) one OBSERVER with no knowledge
of additional OBSERVERS of the same phenom-
enon, or (2) a group of witnesses of the same
phenomenon, each cognizant of the others. The
witness who made the report is called a SINGLE
OBSERVER.

MULTIPLE OBSERVATION — A SIGHTING consisting of
several reports from OBSERVERS of the same
phenomenon who were cognizant of each other.
The witnesses who made reports are called
MULTIPLE OBSERVERS.

ALL SIGHTINGS — (1) The group of reports consisting of one
report for each OBSERVER, including both
SINGLE and MULTIPLE OBSERVERS. (2) The
questionnaire, work sheet, and IBM card
representing the report from each OBSERVER —
in other words, the representation of each report
accepted for the statistical study.

UNIT SIGHTINGS — (1) The group of reports consisting of one
report for each SIGHTING, including all the
reports of SINGLE OBSERVATIONS and the one
most representative report from each MULTIPLE
OBSERVATION, (2) The questionnaire, work
sheet, and IBM card representing the report for
each SIGHTING accepted for the statistical study.

A major serial number (four digits) was assigned to each sighting,
segregating the year of occurrence by selection of limits for each year, as
follows:

0001 to 0500 reserved for 1947
0501 to 1000 reserved for 1948
1001 to 1500 reserved for 1949
1501 to 2000 reserved for 1950
2001 to 2500 reserved for 1951
2501 to 4900 reserved for 1952

While this scheme would serve to identify any individual sighting, identifi-
cation of each report and its subsequent forms was necessary, The minor
subserial numbers (two digits) fulfilled this requirement. For all SINGLE
OBSERVATIONS, a major serial number followed by two (2) zeros, for

example, 2759.00, was sufficient identification. For MULTIPLE OBSER-
VATIONS, the major serial number followed by a series of two-digit num-
bers ranging from 00 to 99 was used to identify the individual reports. In
general, the most complete report from the most reliable observer of that

8

mem emewepe ees ees ee ee ee ee lUeewlUCUClUCEelUCUelUCUCeelUCUCeeelUcee Lm le

MULTIPLE OBSERVATION was identified with the .00 subserial number.
As an example, a MULTIPLE OBSERVATION consisting of six sighting
reports would have the following serial numbers:

1132,00 representing the best report and observer
1132.01 representing an additional observer
1132,02 representing an additional observer
1132,03 representing an additional observer
1132.04 representing an additional observer
1132.05 representing an additional observer

During the course of the transcription of the data to machine card
form, it became obvious that certain reports could have been independent
observations of the same phenomenon. So, if the presentation of an
analysis based on one report for each sighting was valid (the concept of
UNIT SIGHTINGS), a presentation of an analysis based on one report for
each phenomenon should be valid also, Further, the examination of data
relating to the actual number of phenomena was considered to be the proper
basis for assessing the probability of technological developments outside
the range of present-day scientific knowledge. Therefore, a designation of
OBJECT SIGHTINGS was established, with the following definition:

OBJECT SIGHTING — (1) The group of reports consisting of
one report for each phenomenon, (2) The
questionnaire, work sheet, and IBM card
representing a report for each phenomenon
accepted for the statistical study.

In brief review, ALL SIGHTINGS refer to all reports, UNIT SIGHTINGS
refer to actual sightings, and OBJECT SIGHTINGS refer to the assumed
number of phenomena,

It must be recognized that the process of identifying OBJECT
SIGHTINGS was deductive, while that for UNIT SIGHTINGS was definitive.
A conservative approach was adopted in the determination of OBJECT.
SIGHTINGS, using the factors of date and time of observations, location
of observers, duration of observations, and range, bearing, track direc-
tion, and identification of the phenomena. Any error of selection of OBJECT
SIGHTINGS will tend to be in the direction of reducing the actual number of
phenomena observed (several instances of UNIT SIGHTINGS that might be
one OBJECT SIGHTING were noted, but the evidence was not conclusive
enough to justify consolidation of the reports). )

Following the determination of OBJECT SIGHTINGS, a series of
serial numbers, called the INCIDENT SERIAL NUMBERS, was established
to facilitate any future study of a specific object sighting, Each reported
sighting that relates to an OBJECT SIGHTING received the same incident
serial number, a four-digit code paralleling the major serial number
series,

For machine manipulation, it was desirable to be able to select the
sample of cards (all reports, all sightings, or all phenomena) to be in-
cluded in a particular study, The concept of a SIGHTING IDENTIFICATION
NUMBER was evolved to fill this desire. Using one column of the IBM
card, and the correlated working papers, the code for this function was
developed. Multiple punching eliminated the need to use several columns
for discrete expression of the variations. Selection of the proper number
in this column thus permitted selection of the desired sample of cards.

Evaluation of Individual Reports

Evaluation of sighting reports was recognized as a crucial step in the
preparation of data for statistical treatment; inconsistent evaluations would
have invalidated any conclusions to be derived from this study. A method
of evaluation was, therefore, determined simultaneously with the develop-
ment of the questionnaire, the coding system, and the work sheet. It is
emphasized that all phases of evaluation, even including the tedious prep-
aration of the original data for statistical treatment, were entrusted only
to selected, specially qualified scientists and engineers,

Evaluation consisted of a standardized procedure to be followed for:
(1) the deduction of discrete facts from data which depended on human im- |
pressions rather than scientific measurements, (2) the rating of the ob-
server and his report as determined from available information, and (3) the ;
determination of the probable identification of the phenomenon observed.
Categories of identification, established upon the basis of previous experi- _
ence, were as follows: |

Balloon

Astronomical

Aircraft

Light phenomenon

Birds

Clouds, dust, etc.
Insufficient information
Psychological manifestations
Unknown

Other

The first step in evaluation, the deduction of discrete facts from
subjective data, required certain calculations based on the information
available in the sighting report. An example was the finding of the approxi-
mate angular velocity and acceleration of the object or objects sighted.
Care was taken during this phase of the work to insure against the deduc-
tion of discrete facts not warranted by the original data. Thus, even
though there was a complete lack of any valid evidence consisting of

10

a a

physical matter in any case of a reported unidentified aerial object, this
was not assumed to be prima facie evidence that "flying saucers" did not
exist.

In those cases in which an attempt to reduce the information to a
factual level failed completely, the report was eliminated from further con-
sideration, and thus not included in the statistical analysis. About 800
reports of sightings were eliminated or rejected in this manner. Most of
these reports were rejected because they were extremely nebulous; the
rest were rejected because they contained highly conflicting statements.

The second step in evaluation, the rating of the observer and his
report, logically followed the first step, the reduction of the data to usable
form, Ratings were assigned on the basis of the following factors of in-
formation, considered in relation to one another:

(1) The experience of the observer, deduced from his
occupation, age, and training;

(2) The consistency among the separate portions of the
description of the sighting;

(3) The general quality and completeness of the report;

(4) Consideration of the observer's fact-reporting ability
and attitude, as disclosed by his manner of describing
the sighting.

In cases in which insufficient information was available to make a judgment
of the observer or report, none was made, but the report was accepted for
the statistical study.

The third step in the process of evaluation, the attempted identifica-
tion of the object or objects sighted, was done twice, first by the individual
who made the transcription of the data (the preliminary identification), and
later (the final identification) by a conference of four persons, two repre-
sentatives from ATIC and two from the panel of consultants. Although
representatives of ATIC participated in making the final identifications, it
must be emphasized that any previous identification of a sighting made by

. ATIC was not introduced or referred to in any way.

In the coding system, the choices provided for final identifications
were based on ATIC's previous experience in analysis of the data. They
had found that the majority of sightings could be classified as misinterpre-
tations of common objects or natural phenomena, Accordingly, categories
for objects most frequently present in the air were provided. Balloons,
aircraft, astronomical bodies (such as meteors), birds, and clouds or dust
were recognized as major categories. The less frequent, but.common
objects, such as kites, fireworks, flares, rockets, contrails, and

11

meteorological phenomena like small tornadoes, were collected into a
category called OTHER. A separate category for the uncommon natural
phenomena associated with light reflections or refractions, such as mirages,
sun dogs, inversion-layer images, and distortions caused by airborne ice,
was established with the title of LIGHT PHENOMENON, Categories for
INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION, PSYCHOLOGICAL MANIFESTATIONS, and
UNKNOWN were provided for the sightings that could not be fitted into the
preceding identifications, An explanation of their use follows:

INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION — This identification category
was assigned to a report when, upon final con-'
sideration, there was some essential item of
information missing, or there was enough
doubt about what data were available to disallow

‘identification as a common object or some
natural phenomenon, It is emphasized that this
category of identification was not used as a
convenient way to dispose of what might be
called "poor unknowns", but as a category for
reports that, perhaps, could have been one of
several known objects or natural phenomena,

No reports identified as INSUFFICIENT INFORMA-
TION contain authenticated facts or impressions
concerning the sighting that would prevent its

being identified as a known object or phenomenon;

PSYCHOLOGICAL MANIFESTATIONS — This identification
category was assigned to a report when,
although it was well established that the ob-
server had seen something, it was also
obvious that the description of the sighting
had been overdrawn. Religious fanaticism, a
desire for publicity, or an over-active imagi-
nation were the most common mental aber-
rations causing this type of report;

UNKNOWN — This designation in the identification code was
assigned to those reports of sightings wherein
the description of the object and its maneuvers
could not be fitted to the pattern of any known
object or phenomenon,

For the purposes of this study, two groups of identifications were
recognized, the KNOWNS (including all identification categories except the
UNKNOWNS) and the UNKNOWNS.

All possible identifications provided in the code system, except
INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION and UNKNOWN, could be assigned accord-
ing to two degrees of certainty, designated "Certain" and ''Doubtful".

12

A "Certain" identification indicated a minimum amount of doubt regarding
the validity of the evaluation, By "rule-of-thumb" reasoning, the proba-
bility of the identification being correct was better than 95 per cent. A
"Doubtful" identification indicated that the choice was less positive, but
that there was a better than even chance of being correct.

It is emphasized again that, as was true for other phases of evalua-
tion, preliminary and final identification was entrusted only to scientists
and engineers who, in addition to their broad scientific background, had
received instruction, where necessary, in specialized subjects. The panel
of consultants provided background information for this instruction. Many
of the cases representing unusual features or maneuvers were submitted to
and discussed with various members of the panel of consultants prior to the
final identification. .

Consistency in the application of the knowledge necessary for making
identifications was maintained by frequent collaboration among the person-
nel involved, and systematic spot checks of the work. In addition to the
general fund of knowledge required to identify satisfactorily a reported
unidentified aerial object, an attempt was made to correlate specific data
such as flight plans of aircraft, records of balloon releases, weather con-
ditions, and an astronomical almanac with the reported sighting.

The procedure followed in making final identifications deserves ex-
planation because of the importance assumed by the identification as a basis
for statistical treatment. As was mentioned, a conference of four qualified
persons, two from ATIC and two from the panel of consultants, decided
upon the final identification for each sighting report. This work was done
at ATIC, periodically, as reports became ready.

During an identification conference, each sighting report was first
studied, from the original data, by one person, If that person arrived ata
decision, it was checked against the preliminary identification; if the two
identifications were the same, the report was appropriately marked and
considered finished, If the two identifications did not agree, the report
was considered later by everyone participating in the conference until a
group decision could be made,

If an evaluator was unable to categorize the report as one of the
common objects or as a natural phenomenon, and his opinion was that the
sighting should be recorded as UNKNOWN, a group decision was also re-
quired on that report before it was considered finished. A group decision
was necessary on all reports finally recorded as UNKNOWN, regardless of
what the preliminary identification had been. In cases where a group
decision was not made within a reasonable time, the report was put aside
and later submitted to certain members of the panel of consultants for their
opinions. If, after this, disagreement continued to exist, the report of the
sighting was identified as UNKNOWN.

13

Upon completion of final identifications, all data were transferred to
IBM cards, preparatory to analysis.

ANALYSIS OF THE DATA

Broadly stated, the problem at this point consisted of the judicious
application of scientific methods of categorizing and analyzing the sub-
jective data in reports of sightings of unidentified aerial objects. It was
recognized that an approach to this problem could best be made by a sys-
tematic sorting and tabulation program to give frequency and percentage
distributions of the important characteristics of sightings. A suggestion
that an attempt be made to anticipate all questions that might be asked in
the future about a sighting or a group of sightings, and to provide answers,
was rejected. The systematic approach also made it possible to develop
a detailed reference manual of the attributes of the sightings included in
this study.

Thus, at the beginning of the analysis, a detailed plan was developed |
for sorting, counting, and tabulating the information from the punched-card
abstracts of reports of sightings. It was believed at the time, and later
substantiated, that the results of the program for sorting and tabulating |
would serve as a guide for the more sophisticated treatment involving
statistical methods, |
Also, it was anticipated that any patterns or trends that might be
found could be subjected to concentrated study in the hope of discovering |
significant information relating to the characteristics of "flying saucers".
Further, it was believed that these trends could serve as certain of the
criteria of validity for any concepts (models) developed in the attempt to |
discover a class of "flying saucers", j

The three parts of this study (1) the sorting and tabulation program,
(2) the advanced study of the results of that program, and (3) the investiga-
tion of the possibility of conceiving a model of a "flying saucer" from
descriptions reported, are discussed in sections entitled "Frequency and
Percentage Distributions by Characteristics", "Advanced Study of the Data",
and "The 'Flying Saucer’ Model",

Frequency and Percentage Distributions by Characteristics

The original conception of this study assumed the availability of
sufficient data to describe adequately the physical appearance, maneuver
characteristics, range, direction, and probable path of the object or
objects observed. However, familiarity with the data, acquired during the

14

translation and transcription from reports to punched cards, indicated that
there would be relatively few specific variables or factors that would yield
meaningful correlation studies, Either the original data were too subjec-

tive, or the incompleteness of the original reports-would seriously reduce

the sample of a specific variable.

Preliminary tabulations of various sortings substantiated the im-
possibility of deriving statistical results from certain variables, such as
movement of the observer during the sighting, sound, shape parameter,
size, angular velocity and acceleration, appearance and disappearance
bearing, initial and final elevation, altitude, and orientation of the object.
The statistically usable variables presented in this study include the date,
time, location, duration, reliability, and method of observation of the
sighting, and the physical attributes of number, color, speed, shape, light
brightness, and identification of the objects sighted.

The presentation of frequency and percentage distributions of any of
the variables must be interpreted in the light of the sample of incidents
represented. For example, the analysis of the reported colors of the
objects sighted, based on ALL SIGHTINGS, could lead to misrepresenta-
tion of the distribution of the reported color of the objects, because of the
multiplicity of reports on some of the phenomena. On the other hand, the
percentage distribution of the light brightness reported by each observer
is more likely to be correct than a distribution based on one report for
each phenomenon. To assure that the most nearly correct presentation
was made, and to avoid the possibility of failure to uncover any pattern or
trend inherent in the data, the variables were studied on five different
bases or samples. These samples, and their numerical relation to each
other, were as follows:

ALL SIGHTINGS (all reports) — 3,201 cards
UNIT SIGHTINGS, all observers — 2,554 cards
UNIT SIGHTINGS, single observer — 2,232 cards
UNIT SIGHTINGS, multiple observers — 322 cards
OBJECT SIGHTINGS — 2,199 cards

The preliminary tabulations indicated that the samples based on UNIT
SIGHTINGS, single observer, and UNIT SIGHTINGS, multiple observers,
would not add materially to this study. Accordingly, although the fre-
quency distributions were recorded and are available for study, they are
not presented in this report.

The bases of ALL SIGHTINGS, UNIT SIGHTINGS (referring to all
observers), and OBJECT SIGHTINGS are presented in Appendix A as
Tables Al through A240, A critical study of these tabulations reveals that
there is no apparent change in the distribution of any variable from one
basis to another, and that no marked patterns or trends exist in any sample.

15

Graphical Presentation

Graphical representation of the important information contained in
the tables is presented in Figures 1] through 38. These figures present the
distributions of the important variables only by the total number of cases
in each identification category, since no significant differences were found
between the distributions of "Certain" and "Doubtful" identifications of
objects with respect to the variables. A chronological study of these
figures will afford a broad picture of the tabulated information, without the
necessity of a detailed study of the tables.

A critical examination of the figures will show that no trends, patterns,
or correlations are to be found, with the exception of Figures 18 through 30.
The apparent similarity of the distributions shown by these mirror graphs,
Figures 18 through 23, was tested by statistical methods which showed that
there was a low probability- that the distributions of the KNOWNS.and
UNKNOWNS by these characteristics were the same, These tests and their
interpretation are discussed in the following section. For purposes of this
study, the strategic areas, shown in Figures 32 through 38, and Tables
A223 through A240, Appendix A, were designated on the basis of concen-
tration of reports of OBJECT SIGHTINGS in an area, No other interpre-
tation of the tables or remaining charts was deemed necessary.

Advanced Study of the Data

It was recognized that the lack of any patterns or trends, as shown by
the tabulations and graphs, provided an insecure basis for drawing definite
conclusions, Accordingly, shortly before the sorting and tabulation pro-
gram was concluded, a program of study of the data was developed to
utilize statistical and other mathematical methods, which could lead toa
more concrete interpretation of the problem.

Position of the Sun Relative to the Observer

The first thing that was done was to calculate the angle of elevation of
the sun above the horizon and its bearing from true north as seen by the
observer at the time of each sighting. With this information, it could then
be determined whether there was a possibility that the reported object
could have been illuminated by light from the sun. In addition, it could be
determined whether an object could be a mock sun (sun dog) or whether
there was a possibility of specular reflection from an aircraft at the posi-
tion of the object, which would give the appearance of a "flying disc".

A program of computation was set up and carried out to obtain the
angle of elevation and the bearing of the sun for each sighting. All informa-
tion needed for this calculation was available on the deck of IBM cards.

16

ee |

Object sightings All sightings Unit sightings
2199 =1I00% 3201 = 100% 2554 =100%

FIGURE | FREQUENCY OF SIGHTINGS BY YEAR FOR OBJECT,
UNIT, AND ALL SIGHTINGS

A-7479

Unknown
4934=19.7%

Aircraft
474 =21.5%

Insuf. info.

Balloon

Object sightings All sightings Unit sightings
2199=1I00% 3201=1I00% 2554=!100%

FIGURE 2 DISTRIBUTION OF EVALUATIONS OF OBJECT,
UNIT, AND ALL SIGHTINGS FOR ALL YEARS
A-7480

x Unknown
SEER

2. 434219.7%

Aircraft
474=215%

Insuf. info.
2407=10.9%

Balloon
339 =15.4%

FIGURE 3 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY EVALU-

ATION FOR ALL YEARS WITH COMPARISONS OF
EACH YEAR FOR EACH EVALUATION GROUP

A-7481

No. of object sightings

100
90

80 setae

70

eS KKK Oy
meee Se 9 Se

WW

60

N

7

50

YUM:

Per Cent

40

30

All years 1950

FIGURE 4 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY EVALUATION FOR ALL YEARS AND EACH YEAR

A-7482

No. of object sightings

Oo

50
40
30

10

N oO

iaaaecaRaEEen ereereret. : ———ES==s .
wo serereters
rT) POR KREG nl NSS ¢$
- OLRM KS yo

ryt yd x

SHH XG
arene,
vH ERRRKY N
Ly

TT TTT tt CURR FO

© FTE ARR RR N 4>
é

wee

Inne eee . A] NJ
SIT yee \ -
OTT Try Ty ( g
ITT TTT ryt ) \
mn eee iS
int q WKS N
2 MRIS Ssoseereoennten \
Or teonctatenerate! N
EEE RRR N

CONC = N] =
" Seed || RON
Sasson] | | AAS
OOO N
Shun, Raewio| eves ICSE TL. Ipa!woucsIsy/) s
PLT LT RRR NORAS! (A,

ie) fe)

ee
Oo Oo Oo

oO (e) Oo Oo
Oo o @ ~ wo w) vv Le] N -

sBuiyybis yoalqo SyJUOW YODQ jo 4Uad 4ad

2l

FIGURE 5 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY EVALUATION WITHIN MONTHS FOR ALL YEARS

A-7483

Nn

SC

2

a

eee
anne

ject sightings

aoe

RX
PRRRLLLXG
ae
3S

set seesnse
<x 4 S72

Se
soectsceeeeeenn
x BERRA Te

srsassstie
Q

Ox
oe

Ss
COS
ROE

OO

PT

va

ya

Se EAS

wed
KES
LEEK

ASX &

Y

g

cS
yas

KK

J

AA
kK

oh

an

sbuyyy8ig 49afqo yo saquny

Unknown
ob
Tr rT],

aw

FIGURE 7 FREQUENCY OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS AND UNKNOWN OBJECT EVALUATIONS BY MONTHS,

c-7485

1947-1952

Astro-
nomical

Unknown] Astro-
72=16.6%| nomical

Unknown

oo Aircraft |\

Insuf. info.
924.2 %

Insuf.
2723.6 %

FIGURE 8 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY SIGHTING
RELIABILITY GROUPS WITH EVALUATION DISTRIBUTIONS

FOR EACH GROUP
a-7486

24

‘No. of object sightings
100
90
80
70
60

50

Ge
Per Cent

40

30

All years

FIGURE 9 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS AMONG THE FOUR SIGHTING RELIABILITY
GROUPS FOR ALL YEARS AND EACH YEAR

A-7487

Per Cent??

45
40
35
30
25

20

GO
Re as
eo

W

. ry

VA-RH

Ni Poe

Civilian

o 0
dey
TO
Jay sneees
VAR

75

Excellent

1000

SS

Civilian

Military

Good

ee

100

NU

NN

P7A_ea-y —— ann
Rt, AY | ZH
Aer — 0

we Ena Gs: 41 |

Ye uicee SIZ Gre
Wm ex

Gi EHH IS ZS
75 100 6 100

Civilian

Military

Doubt ful

Civilian

oer Gent yO a i _ a

Military |

Poor

FIGURE 10 DISTRIBUTION OF ALL SIGHTINGS BY SIGHTING RELIABILITY GROUPS. SEGREGATED BY

MILITARY AND CIVILIAN OBSERVERS WITH EVALUATION DISTRIBUTION FOR EACH
SEGREGATION

A-7488

Per Cent

Per Cent

00cm . CT TTT oreo TIT 7!00
an Cy Co Pore SESEsnni
an a To fT SSSRena!
an a Shee eee a aan CT
on | ro foo
CI co) foeerd 90
- FO fee cecr
a cy ico an
| Co feo
- ro fc TTI
x 4 80
. aan
p o,
ROOK CK ‘ . J 70
% < RS Wetetatetecets
ESR] EKKO eee SERRE RES
Y — fp —_} 160
TCS
ee Y
TC
Balloon VA, 50
iY
ee 40

N

Astro-
nomical

Other

FIGURE I! DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY REPORTED COLORS
OF OBJECT(S) WITH EVALUATION DISTRIBUTION FOR EACH

COLOR GROUP

A-7489

27

100-qtotooo
PoC
POE

IRB
so-ft tr
EReRE mei
‘_ccosen oe
Wrretetetaetetctens
ERK KK KK
RRR
CO —KRKKKRKKKV]
SOOO OT

Per Cent Within Group

SOR xX
80- eee OS

DANAAAAAAA ALS

ete

Per Cent Within Group

TOIT] — 100
BEER
Pty | an

SERRE
pti ttt é§go

Coe
CCC
an
ptt tii ty ily
3-10 objects Ib or more objects KSXXXxsxxx
J
255° 11.6 % 66=3.0% 0
RENO NNR — 4.0 a
3
0 2
S| fifi:
#1 6 c =
bed Cs C)
o O1 Ss
VL) ol— c
2/0 Qa Ow
@ | object sie RS ee
1656= 74.4% s erento

VALLLLLLLL~ 40

RC

OO FEAT
rey Unknown

60- — Balloon
ee UU

WN Astronomical
ro N

Aircraft

N

FIGURE !2 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY NUMBER OF
OBJECTS SEEN PER SIGHTING WITH EVALUATION DISTRI-
BUTION FOR EACH GROUP

A-7490

28

VEOOWO ee Sr

ROOST ELTTEET TY

Masronorieal ivoratt gallos n4_insuf._info._f att Unknown| Unknown-+
NS

x
EET 200 sic nennaaae

Comms: RX oe SS 4

PERRIS SSC :

XSY oT] |
SONRSCF

RSX ee

Waa aw arava 4iom

Per Cent

SM ja

GE

ST = ce

Lip SSS

SSS :

62

Se

x

cates
SEA
sox SS

ie) 20 30 40 50
Evaluations in Per Cent

FIGURE 13 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY DURATION OF SIGHTING WITH EVALUATION
DISTRIBUTION FOR EACH DURATION GROUP

A- 749)

No. of object sightings

Le) Oo Oo
vt

N a”
“S 9 CG ~)
< Go |Ps
o w
998 09-I¢
o oO re) wo Ye) t oe) rN]

s6ulyybis 49afqo SYysUOW Y9D¥ 40 4uad Jad

30

FIGURE 14 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY MONTHS AMONG THE EIGHT DURATION

-7492

A

GROUPS FOR ALL YEARS

SI BSS3SXK
XY [XXKKEM

A-74953

Evaluation in Per Cent

j

MW
SG

EVALUATION DISTRIBUTION FOR EACH SHAPE GROUP

Flame
Lenticular conicag
or teardrop

FIGURE [5 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY SHAPE OF OBJECTS) REPORTED WITH

yuay sad

3

Soaane
CH

ix

OC
5504
4

roe
en

Rees
a

Per Cent

Acs

4 | } ty
100-400 ~
men SST

S38
—1hgss thon 4(SRESEReee!
enn
42 SEREEeee

'O-I Stationary

sn cose nEEnSST ESET
Speed QOCGELET TTT Er]

+P valuation in Per Cent
FIGURE 16 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY REPORTED SPEED OF OBJECT(S) WITH

EVALUATION DISTRIBUTION FOR EACH SPEED GROUP
A-7494

meme EeeeTlUeeelUlUUmeelUCU melee eee eee eee

No. of allsighting

100-
v 90-
2
wo 70-
2

a's 40-

3 30-
Oo

a
om

All years

FIGURE !7 DISTRIBUTION OF ALL SIGHTINGS BY OBSERVER LOCATION FOR ALL YEARS AND

EACH YEAR
A-7495

TotalLess Unknown Unknown
Per Cent Per Cent

30 25 20 15 10 5 oO O 5 10 15 20 25 30

White

Metallic

Not stated

ve

Orange

Red

Other

FIGURE 18 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY COLOR,!1947-1952
: A-7496

TotalLess Unknown Unknown
Per Cent Per Cent

80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 O oO tO 20 30 40 50 60 70 80

One

Two

Three

ten
Eleven

or
more

Not stated

FIGURE 19 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY NUMBER OF
OBJECTS PER SIGHTING, 1947-1952

A- 7497

Total Less Unknown Unknown
Per Cent Per Cent

40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 O- Oo 65§—6— 610 «18 20 25 30 35 40

Stationary

Less than
100 mph -

100 to 400
mph

More than
400 mph

Meteor-like

Not stated

FIGURE 20 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY SPEED, 1947-1952

A-7498

Total Less Unknown Unknown

Per Cent . Per Cent
30 25 20 15 10 S O O 5 10 5 20 25 £30

5 seconds
or less

6-l0
seconds

11-30
seconds

31-60
seconds

de

6| seconds
5 minutes

6-30
minutes

More than
30 minutes

Not stated

FIGURE 21 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY DURATION ,1947-1952

A-7499

Total Less Unknown Unknown

Per Cent Per Cent
50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 Oo §5§ 10 |'I§ 20 25 30 35 40 45 50

Elliptical

Rocket

an
aircraft
Meteor or
comet

Lenticular,
conical or
teardrop

Flame

Other shap

Not stated

FIGURE 22 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY SHAPE, 1947-1952

A-7300

Total Less Unknown Unknown
Per Cent Per Cent
40 30 20 Ke) O 30 40

60 50 50

Sunlight on
mirror or
aluminum

Sunlight on
plaster,
stone or soil

Brighter
than moon

Like moon

Duller
than moon

Not stated

FIGURE 23 COMPARISON OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY LIGHT BRIGHT NESS,
1947-1952
‘A-7501

Total Less Astronomical Astronomical

Per Cent Per Cent
40 30 20 10 O oO 10 20 30 40

January
February
March
April
May

June

Ov

July
August
September
October
November

December

FIGURE 24 COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED AS
ASTRONOMICAL VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS ASTRONOMICAL

A-7502

Total Less Aircraft Aircraft
Per Cent Per Cent
40 30 20 Te) O (9) 10 20 30 40
January
February .
March
April
May

Ip

June
July
August
September
October
November

December

FIGURE 25 COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED AS
AIRCRAFT VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS AIRCRAFT

A-7503

Total Less Balloon Balloon
Per Cent Per Cent
30 20 Te) 20

January
February
March
April
May

June

ov

July

August
September
October

November

December

FIGURE 26 COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED
AS BALLOON VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS BALLOON

A-7304

ev

Total Less Insufficient Information insufficient Information

Per Cent Per Cent

40 30 20 10 O O 10 2 30 40

January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
_. October
November

December

FIGURE 27 COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED AS
INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS INSUFFI-

CIENT INFORMATION
A-7505

Total Less Other Other
Per Cent Per Cent
40 30 20 10 (@) O 10 20 30 40

January
February
March
April

May

June

vb

July
August
September
October
November

December

FIGURE 28 COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED AS
OTHER VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS OTHER

A-7506

Total Less Unknown Unknown
Per Cent Per Cent

40 30 20 10 O O 10 20 30 40

January
February
March
April
May

June

Sv

July
August
September
October
November

December

FIGURE 29 COMPARISON OF MONTHLY DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS EVALUATED AS
UNKNOWN VERSUS TOTAL OBJECT SIGHTINGS LESS UNKNOWN

A-7507

Total
Per Cent

Per Cent

Knowns

Astro
Per Cent

Aircraft
Per Cent

Balloon
Per Cent

Other
Per Cent

90

> a oo nN By 2) @
200 [o]

Nn

ao

PS a

Nn
So

ao
O00

a

iii NTE
‘ii ATL

TATA
LA
eet | ‘

aro

OA
d

VPKKY Ce
S Ce
86
Number of

FIGURE 30 CHARACTERISTICS PROFILES OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY

TOTAL SAMPLE, KNOWN EVALUATIONS, AND INDIVIDUAL KNOWN
EVALUATIONS, WITH UNKNOWN EVALUATIONS SUPERIMPOSED
B-7508

46

M0

16.8% \ OTHI 0
i a.
a

ER
TT

. 17.8%. FN ~NRCRAFT
OTHER 21.6%
A \ BALLOON \
. BALLOON ‘

ui AIRCRAFT
INSUF. 715% iN \
INFO. \
KY BALLOON Be
R A sls ; CENTRAL EAST
, ; 393 100%

CENTRAL WEST
59 = 100%

SP

AIRCRAFT
BALLOON ;
15.5% an
3-1 [ 4

AIRCRAI

INSUF.A 31% (4 59

INFO.

BALLOON,
65° FA

INSUF,
INFO.

go° age

FIGURE 32 DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY EVALUATION FOR THE TWELVE REGIONAL
AREAS OF THE UNITED STATES, WITH THE STRATEGIC AREAS LOCATED (STRATEGIC
AREAS WERE DETERMINED ON THE BASIS OF CONCENTRATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS)

Aircraft

Aircraft

Balance of Central East

Region
8I object sightings

6v

Unknown | !5.1%

Aircraft

8%/ Balloon

FIGURE 33 COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS IN THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF THE
CENTRAL EAST REGION . B- 75H

FIGURE 34 COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS IN THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF
THE CENTRAL MIDWEST REGION B-7512

Balloon

Insuf. info.

Balance of Central

San Francisco
93 object sightings Farwest Region

38 object sightings

FIGURE 35 COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS

IN THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF THE CENTRAL FARWEST REGION
B-7513

es

0 sr]
62 object sightings bs
Waco yn
Balloon { Aircraft
d

San Antonio
36 object sightings

Astro 0.
Balance of South
Balloon/ Aircraft Midwest Region
Sem Nm / 278% 210 object sightings
lo
95

FIGURE 36. COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS IN THE STRATEGIC AREAS

OF THE SOUTH MIOWEST REGION
68-7514

9@ object sightings
Albuquerque

5 Aircraft

ther 20.8 %

st
Balloon

Balance of South
West Region
125 object sightings

FIGURE 37 COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS IN THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF
THE SOUTH WEST REGION A-7815

Insuf.
info. 5.3%

Balance of South —
Farwest Region

19 object sightings

FIGURE 38 COMPARISON OF EVALUATION OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS IN

THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF THE SOUTH FARWEST REGION
B- 7516

54

This information consisted of:
(1) Time and date of observation in Greenwich Civil Time

(2) Latitude and longitude of the observer at the time of
observation.

Figure 39 shows a celestial sphere on which Z represents the ob-
server's zenith, s represents the sun, and N represents the north celestial
pole,

Using the date and time of the observation, the longitude and declina-
tion (S) of the sun were obtained from an ephemeris of the sun and corrected
for the equation of time. The difference between the longitudes of the sun
and the observer was taken, and called the hour angle (HA on Figure 39).

Then, using the declination of the sun (S), the latitude of the observer
(lat), and the hour angle (HA), the angle (ZS) between the observer's zenith
and the sun can be calculated from the law of cosines of spherical trigo-
nometry. Thus, cos ZS = cos (90 - lat) cos (90 - S) + sin (90 - lat) sin

Since the angle ZS is measured from the observer's zenith, the angle
of elevation of the sun above the horizon for daytime sightings was found by
taking 90 - ZS. When the sun was below the horizon, the angle of depres-
sion of the sun below the horizon was found by taking ZS - 90.

Having found the angle ZS, the bearing of the sun (angle B) was ob-
tained from the formula:

sin (B) _ sin (HA

All of the above calculations were made with IBM equipment. Sines,
cosines, and their inverses were obtained from a deck of 9,000 IBM cards
on which seven-place Peter's tables of the sines, cosines, and tangents of
angles had been punched for each 0.01 of a degree from 0 to 90 degrees.

Upon completion of these calculations, the cards representing OBJECT
SIGHTINGS were sorted on the sign of the sine of the bearing angle. This
separated the cards into two groups: (1) sightings which occurred between
noon and midnight, for which the sine of the bearing angle was positive; and
(2) sightings between midnight and noon, for which the sine of the bearing
angle was negative, Then each of these groups was sorted into groups for
intervals of 10° in angle of elevation of the sun from -90° to +90°. A count
was made of the number of cards in each group and from this a histogram
was constructed (Figure 40). The UNKNOWN OBJECT SIGHTINGS were
then sorted out, counted in the same manner, and a histogram was made
(again see Figure 40).

55

FIGURE 39 DIAGRAM OF A CELESTIAL SPHERE

A-7535

56

300
275
250
225
200
175
150

125 All object sightings

PAS]
Number of Object Sightings

i, Unknown object sightings
Suni rise

100

75

-90 -60 -30 O +30 +60 +90 +60 +30 O -30 -60 -90
Angle of Elevation of The Sun

FIGURE 40 FREQUENCY OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY ANGLE OF ELEVATION OF THE SUN, INTERVALS

OF 10 DEGREES OF ANGLE
A-7536

The following points should be carefully noted about these histograms:

(1) The negligible number of sightings when the sun is within
10° of the zenith and nadir (angle of elevation of the sun =
+90°) of the observer is due to the fact that the southern-
most latitude of the U. S. is greater than the declination
of the sun at the summer solstice, so that it would be im-
possible for the sun to reach the zenith or nadir of any
observer in the U. S. (where most of the sightings were

(2) The time of day at which a particular angle of elevation
of the sun occurs does not remain fixed but varies from
day to day. Consider, for example, the variation in
sunrise and sunset times over the course of a year,

Thus, there are only two inferences to be made from this histogram:
(1) the high peak of sightings soon after sunset, and (2) the lack of increase
in the UNKNOWNS relative to the KNOWNS near either sunset or sunrise.
This would seem to discount the possibility that atmospheric phenomena
such as mock suns were the primary cause of the unknown reports, since
such phenomena usually occur when the sun is near the horizon,

The Local Sun Time was computed as a step in the calculation of the

angle of elevation of the sun, It is related to the hour angle by the equation:

Local Sun Time (L.S.T.) = HA/15 + 12.00, where L.S.T. is in hours and
HA in degrees.

The cards were grouped on the basis of L.S,T. in intervals of one
hour, and the number of cards in each interval was counted. Again the
UNKNOWNS were sorted out and similarly treated. Histograms were con-
structed with the results of these tabulations of OBJECT SIGHTINGS
(Figure 41). Here, again, there is a peak in the early evening hours.

The cards were then broken up into seven groups on the basis of the
angle of elevation of the sun, as follows:

Group 1 — Daylight sightings for which the sun was more than
10° above the horizon.

Group 2 — Sunset sightings for which the sun was between 0°
and 10° above the horizon,

Group 3 — Sunset sightings for which the sun was between 0°
and 10° below the horizon,

Group 4 — Evening sightings for which the sun was between
10° and 40° below the horizon.

58

6S
Number of Object Sightings

300

275

250

{Midnight
I
t

All object sightings

Unknown object sightings

50
25
SBE
O REE EP re PET == o san
O 0300 0600 0900 1200 1500 1800 2100 2400

Local Sun Time
FIGURE 41 FREQUENCY OF OBJECT SIGHTINGS BY LOCAL SUN TIME, INTERVALS OF ONE HOUR

A-7537

Group 5 — Night sightings for which the sun was more than 10°
below the horizon and which were not included in
Group 4,

Group 6 — Sunrise sightings for which the sun was between 0°
and 10° below the horizon.

Group 7 — Sunrise sightings for which the sun was between 0°
and 10° above the horizon,

These group numbers were punched on the cards and incorporated

into the coding system, The number of OBJECT SIGHTINGS in each group
for each identification was then tabulated and is given in Table I.

TABLE I OBJECT SIGHTINGS

Angle of Elevation Group

Identification 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Balloon 156 17 28 83 40 0 2
Astronomical 52 6 43 236 118 9 6
Aircraft 187 23 49 144 60 5 2
Light phenomena 8 2 4 25 7 0 0
Insufficient information 72 12 26 76 28 2 0
UNKNOWN 134 14 25 150 86 6 7
Other 64 8 12 50 36 3 7

Total 673 82 187 764 375 25 24

According to this table, a large majority of the KNOWN OBJECT
SIGHTINGS in Group 1 (343 out of 467) were either aircraft or balloons, In
Groups 4 and 5 combined, a large majority (681 out of 899) were either
balloons, aircraft, or astronomical, Accordingly, a re-evaluation of the
UNKNOWNS in these three groups was planned with the objective of deter-
mining which of the UNKNOWNS in Group 1 might possibly be aircraft or
balloons and which of the UNKNOWNS in Groups 4 and 5 might possibly be
balloons, aircraft, or astronomical objects. More will be said of this
project later,

Statistical Chi Square Test

In the meantime, mirror graphs had been constructed from the fre-
quency tabulations which seemed to show that, when the KNOWNS (total less
UNKNOWNS) and the UNKNOWNS were grouped according to one of six
characteristics, the percentage of KNOWNS and the percentage of

60

UNKNOWNS in each characteristic group showed the same general trend.
In other words, on the basis of these graphs, it looked as though there was
a good possibility that the UNKNOWNS were no different from the KNOWNS,
at least in the aggregate. It was decided to investigate this by the use ofa
statistical procedure called the ''Chi Square Test",

The Chi Square Test is a statistical test of the likelihood that two
distributions come from the same population, that is, it gives the proba-
bility that there is no difference in the make-up of the two distributions
being measured,

The method is outlined as follows:

(1) Adjust the distributions by multiplying the KNOWNS in each
characteristic group by the ratio of the total number of
UNKNOWNS to the total number of KNOWNS, (The Chi
Square Test is applicable only to distributions which have
the same total number of elements. )

(2) Take the difference between the number of UNKNOWNS and
the adjusted number of KNOWNS in each characteristic

group,
(3) Square the remainder from Step 2.

(4) Divide the result of Step 3 by the corresponding number of
adjusted KNOWNS,

This is the chi square for the particular group. Summing the indi-
vidual chi squares over the groups of a characteristic gives the chi square
for that characteristic, This number is then compared with a table of the
distribution of chi square which can be found in many texts on elementary
statistics,

It will be noted that chi square is tabulated in terms of degrees of
freedom which in this case is one less than the number of groups of sight-
ings for each characteristic,

The tabulations of KNOWNS and UNKNOWNS against the six char-
acteristics and the Chi Square Test as it was-applied are shown in Tables
II through VII, In each case, the number of degrees of freedom is given,
as is the value of chi squares corresponding to probabilities of 5 per cent
and 1 per cent that two distributions with this number of degrees of freedom
come from the same population, Since the greater the value of chi square
the smaller the probability of homogeneity of two distributions, a calculated
value of chi square greater than either the 5 per cent or 1 per cent values
will indicate a probability less than 5 per cent or 1 per cent, respectively,
that the two distributions are homogeneous, The term homogeneity is used
here to indicate that two distributions could have come from the same
population,

61

TABLE II CHISQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS
UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF COLOR

Adjusted x4,
Number of Number of Number of (K-n)
Color KNOWNS KNOWNS (K) UNKNOWNS (n) K

White 405 100 112 1.44
Metallic 313 77 76 0.01
Not stated 209 51 62 2.37
Orange 172 42 49 1.17
Red 146 36 33 0.25
Yellow 128 31 31 0
Green 130 32 14 10.13
Blue 67 17 26 4,76
Other 195 48 31 6, 02
Total 1765 434 434 26.15
Degrees of freedom a 8
5% 15.5

1% 20.1

TABLE III CHI SQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS
UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF NUMBER

Number of Adjusted x4,
Objects Per Number of Number of Number of (K-n)@
Sightin KNOWNS KNOWNS (K UNKNOWNS (n K

1 1339 329 297 3.11
2 159 39 37 0.10
3-10 185 46 70 12.52
11 or more 41 10 25 22. 50
Not stated © 41 10 5 2.50
Total 1765 434 434 40.73
Degrees of freedom 4
1% 13.3

63

TABLE IV CHI SQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS
UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF SHAPE

Adjusted x4,
Number of Number of Number of (K-n)2
Shape KNOWNS KNOWNS (K UNKNOWNS (n K
Elliptical 838 206 195 0.59
Rocket and aircraft 80 20 33 8.45
Meteor or comet 55 14 4 7.14
Teardrop, lenticular, 103 25 22 0. 36
or conical

Flame 96 24 10 8.17
Other 193 47 54 1,04
Not stated — 400 98 116 3, 30
Total 1765 434 434 29.05
Degrees of freedom 6
5% 12.6

64

TABLE V CHISQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS UNKNOWNS
ON THE BASIS OF DURATION OF OBSERVATION

Adjusted x2,

Duration of Number of Number of Number of (K-n)4

Observation KNOWNS KNOWNS (K UNKNOWNS (n K
5 sec or less 259 64 27 21,39
6-10 sec 92 23 21 0.17
11-30 sec 153 38 33 0. 66
31-60 sec 108 26 42 9,85
61 sec-5 min 269 66 99 16, 50
6-30 min 305 75 71 0,21
Over 30 min 135 33 37 0,48
Not stated 444 109 104 0,23
Total 1765 434 434 49,49
Degrees of freedom 7
1% 18,5

65

TABLE VI CHI SQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS
UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF SPEED

Adjusted / x4,
Number of Number of Number of (K-n)4
Speed KNOWNS KNOWNS (K UNKNOWNS (n K

Stationary 249 61 53 1.05
Less than 100 mph 154 38 26 3.79
100 to 400 mph 181 . 45 58 3. 76
Over 400 mph 403 99 145 21.37
Meteor-like 83 20 16 0, 80
Not stated 695 171 136 7.16
Total 1765 434 434 37.93
Degrees of freedom 5
5% 11,1

1% 15,1

66

TABLE VII CHISQUARE TEST OF KNOWNS VERSUS UNKNOWNS
ON THE BASIS OF LIGHT BRIGHTNESS

Adjusted x4,
Number of Number of Number of K-n)#
Light Brightness KNOWNS KNOWNS (K) UNKNOWNS (n K
Sunlight on mirror 47 11 14 0,82
Sunlight on aluminum 151 37 28 2.19
Sunlight on plaster, 76 19 16 0.47
stone, or soil
Brighter than moon 273 67 61 0.55
Like moon or duller 68 17 22 1.47
than moon
Not stated 1150 283 293 0.35
Total 1765 434 434 5.85
Degrees of freedom 5
5% 11.1
1% 15.1
67

In five of the six cases, the probability is less than 1] per cent that
the distributions are the same, In the sixth case, Light Brightness, the
classifications are too nebulous to be of real value. However, these tests
do not necessarily mean that the UNKNOWNS are primarily "flying saucers"!
and not aircraft, balloons, or other known objects or natural phenomena.
The UNKNOWNS might still be unidentified KNOWNS if either of the follow-
ing cases occurred:

(1) The characteristics which were observed for the UNKNOWNS
were different from those observed for the KNOWNS because
of the psychological make-up of the observer or because of
atmospheric distortion. This assumes the distribution of
objects in KNOWNS and UNKNOWNS is the same.

(2) The UNKNOWNS may be known objects in different propor-
tions than the group identified as KNOWNS. (That is, a
greater percentage of the UNKNOWNS could be aircraft
than the percentage of aircraft in the identified KNOWNS.)

The second case is the more probable one. In this connection, it is
interesting to note the factors which contributed to a large chi square
result in the tests made above:

(1) Color

The major contribution to chi square in color is from the
color green. There is a large excess of green sightings
among the KNOWNS over the UNKNOWNS. Of the 130
known objects in this classification, 98 are astronomical,
and are due mostly to the green fireballs reported from
the Southwest U. S.

(2) Number

The large chi square is due to a greater proportion of
UNKNOWNS in the multiple object classification, Apparently
these are harder to identify.

(3) Shape

In this case, there is a higher percentage of UNKNOWNS
in the rocket-aircraft-shape classification, These might
be familiar objects for which unusual maneuvers were
reported,

There is a higher percentage of KNOWNS in the flame
and in the meteor- or comet-shape category, which in
both cases appears to result mainly from excesses of
astronomical sightings.

68

(4) Duration of observation

Here there is an excess of KNOWNS in the less-than-
5-second group. Again, the majority of KNOWNS in

this group are astronomical. The greater proportion
of UNKNOWNS in the 31- to 60-second and 6l-second
to 5-minute groups cannot be explained.

(5) Speed

The major contribution to chi square for this char-
acteristic is due to a large excess of UNKNOWNS in
the over 400-mph class. It can be assumed that some
of the excessive speeds are inaccuracies in estimates
by observers. However, some radar sightings, which
are practically impossible to identify, show objects
with speeds of 1,000 to 2,000 mph and over, and these
reports account for a number of these UNKNOWNS.

(6) Light brightness

Since this chi square was not significant, it is not
necessary to discuss it here.

An examination of these discrepancies thus brings up a very interest-
ing point. In every case for which there is a significant excess of KNOWNS
over UNKNOWNS, the excess can be attributed to an excess of identifiable
astronomical phenomena. This would seem to lead to the conclusion that
astronomical phenomena are easy to identify and there are very few left in
the UNKNOWNS, Accordingly, the astronomical object sightings were _
deleted from the KNOWN object sightings and the Chi Square Test was again
applied, The results are shown in Tables VIII through XIII, where in this
case the KNOWNS do not contain astronomical sightings.

It will be noted that some groups were combined when the adjusted
number of KNOWNS was ten or less, except for the case for which the
number of objects per sighting was the characteristic studied, These were
borderline cases, and no good combination of groups existed,

It is apparent that the deletion of astronomical sightings gives a better
fit, although the decision is not clear cut, since for two cases (light bright-
ness and speed), the chi square increased. However, it can again be pointed
out that the reporting of these two characteristics is highly subjective and is
open to question, The estimation of speed is especially open to question
because of the impossibility of accurately determining it visually.

69

TABLE VII

Color

‘ White
Metallic

Not stated

Orange
Red
Yellow
Green
Blue
Other

Total

UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF COLOR

Number of
KNOWNS

281
298
189
117
92
90
32
29
158

1286

Degrees of freedom

Adjusted
Number of
KNOWNS (K

95
101
64
39
31
30
11
10
53

434

70

Number of
UNKNOWNS (n

112
76
62
49
33
31
14
26
sit

434

CHI SQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS

K

04
19
06
56
13
. 03
. 82

© OO ON OD Ww

13, 40

TABLE IX CHI SQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS
UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF NUMBER

Number of Adjusted x2,
Objects Per Number of Number of Number of (K-n)2
Sightin KNOWNS KNOWNS (K UNKNOWNS (n K

] 913 308 297 0.39

2 142 48 37 2.52

3-10 168 57 70 2.96

11 or more 34 11 25 15, 36
Not stated 29 10 5 2.50
Total 1286 434 434 23.73
Degrees of freedom 4

1% 13.3

en —— el

71

TABLE X CHISQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS
UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF SHAPE

Shape

Elliptical

Rocket or aircraft

Meteor or comet

Flame

Teardrop, lenticular,
or conical

Other

Not stated

Total

Degrees of freedom

Number of
KNOWNS

632
72
9
47
79

151
296

1286

Adjusted
Number of
KNOWNS (K UNKNOWNS (n

213
24
3
16
27

51
100

434

Number of

195

33

10

22

54
116

434

1, 52
3.37

1,32
0.93

72

i TABLE XI CHI SQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS UNKNOWNS
| ON THE BASIS OF DURATION OF OBSERVATION
Adjusted x4,
| Duration of Number of Number of Number of (K-n)2
Observation KNOWNS KNOWNS (K) UNKNOWNS (n) K
| 5 sec or less 92 31 27 0.52
6-10 sec 47 16 21 1,56
| 11-30 sec 118 40 33 1.23
31-60 sec 92 31 42 3.90
61 sec-5 min 252 85 99 2.31
| 6 min-30 min 259 87 71 2.94
Over 30 min 91 31 37 1.16
J Not stated 335 113 104 0.72
Total 1286 434 434 14. 34
i Degrees of freedom 7
5% 14.1
i 1% 18.5
i 7

TABLE XII CHISQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS
UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF SPEED

Number of

Speed KNOWNS
Stationary 196
Less than 100 mph 128
100 to 400 mph 156
Over 400 mph 291
Meteor-like 24
Not stated 491
Total 1286

Degrees of freedom

———————ese_e<qQQ0Q907——>>EeEeEeE>EeE—E—eEeEeEe_ye—eeq_qq—eeeee—e—eeeeeeeeeeeeeEeEeEeEeeeeeeeeeeeeeee

Adjusted
Number of
KNOWNS (K

66
43
53
98
8
166

434

14

Number of
UNKNOWNS (n

53
26
58
145
16
136

434

2.56
6.72
0.47

28,54
5. 42

43.71

TABLE XIII CHI SQUARE TEST OF REVISED KNOWNS VERSUS
UNKNOWNS ON THE BASIS OF LIGHT BRIGHTNESS

Adjusted x4,
Number of Number of Number of (K-n)*
Light Brightness KNOWNS  KNOWNS (K) UNKNOWNS (n K
Sunlight on mirror 24 8 14 2.67
Sunlight on aluminum 136 46 28 °
Sunlight on plaster, 63 21 16 1.19
stone, or soil
Brighter than moon 143 48 61 3.52
Like moon or duller 42 15 22 3.27
than moon
Not stated 878 296 293 0.03
Total 1286 434 434 10. 68
Degrees of freedom 4
1% 13.3
75

Another interesting aspect of these new tests is that there are only
two large discrepancies in all of the groups. These are for the 11 or more
groups in the classification by number of objects per sighting and for the
over-400-mph and meteor-like group for the classification by speed. The
first was relatively unchanged by deletion of the astronomical sightings
principally because of the concentration of sightings in the single-object
category. The second was slightly increased by the removal of the astro-
nomical sightings from the meteor~like classification. However, the main
discrepancy, that of the excess of UNKNOWNS in the over-400-mph class,
was little changed.

The results of these tests are inconclusive since they neither confirm
nor deny that the UNKNOWNS are primarily unidentified KNOWNS, although
they do indicate that relatively few of the UNKNOWNS are actually astro-
nomical phenomena,

It was decided that this process would not be carried to its logical
conclusion (that is, the determination of a linear combination of KNOWNS
that would give a negligible chi square when compared with the UNKNOWNS),
since it was felt that the inaccuracies in the reports would give a distorted
and meaningless result,

The "Flying Saucer" Model

The importance of the problem dictated a second approach, should the
statistical results prove inconclusive. It was decided that an attempt
would be made to describe the physical appearance, flight characteristics,
and other attributes (that is, construct a model) of a class or classes of
"flying saucers",

Preparatory to this attempt, a re-evaluation of the UNKNOWNS was
necessary. This re-evaluation was accomplished by a panel composed only
of persons previously associated with the work. Using all the UNKNOWNS
reports available at ATIC, the panel made a careful study of the reports for
the UNKNOWN SIGHTINGS in angle-of-sun-elevation Groups 1, 2, 3, 6, and
7 — those groups for which the sun was either above the horizon or less than
10° in elevation below the horizon.

This study had two purposes. The first was to determine, with
additional information such as the angle of elevation of the sun, how many
of the UNKNOWNS might be ascribed to known phenomena, The second was
to obtain those UNKNOWNS which were described in sufficient detail that
they might be used to construct a model or models of ''flying saucers",

It was decided to put any of the UNKNOWNS which might be known
phenomena into a "possible KNOWN" category to denote the slightly lower
confidence level which could be ascribed to these new evaluations. The

76

UNKNOWNS with sufficiently detailed description would be called ''good
UNKNOWNS", while the remainder would simply be called UNKNOWNS.
One hundred sixty-four folders of a total of 186 OBJECT SIGHTINGS in
Groups l, 2, 3, 6, and 7 were examined. There were 18 possible aircraft,
20 possible balloons, 7 good UNKNOWNS, 100 UNKNOWNS, and 19 others
which were identified as being possible KNOWNS of various types, It is
interesting to note that two of these were established as mock suns on the
basis of the angle of sun elevation and the sun bearing angle, together with
the direction of the object from the observer, In addition, the UNKNOWNS
in angle-of-sun-elevation Groups 4 and 5 (nighttime sightings) were scanned
with no attempt at identification, but to find any possible ''good UNKNOWNS".
There were five sightings that could be put into this category,

Of the UNKNOWNS, there were approximately 20 sightings that were
observed in such a way that they should have been recognized easily if they
had been familiar objects, that is, there was little possibility that their
shapes, as seen, could have been distorted sufficiently by one cause or
another to render them unrecognizable, There were a very few that would
have been identified as guided missiles or rockets, but that were not so
identified because of the geographical location in which they were seen,

All of the remaining UNKNOWNS were classified as such solely be-
cause they were reported to have performed maneuvers that could not be
ascribed to any known objects, In these cases, the shape might have been
unrecognizable also, but it was felt that this was because of distortion and
distance, or because of darkness,

This is a very important point. To put it differently, if these
UNKNOWNS, which represent all but about 40 of the UNKNOWN SIGHTINGS,
were reported to have performed maneuvers which could be ascribed to
known phenomena, they would proba have been identified as KNOWNS.
With the exception of some radar Sightings, all of these maneuvers were
observed visually, The possibilities for inaccuracies are great because
of the inability of an observer to estimate visually size, distance, and
speed,

Reports of sightings by radar usually were of high-speed objects,
some at extremely high altitudes. Some were identified as UNKNOWNS
because there was no object to be seen visually at the point indicated by the
radar set, It cannot be said with any assurance what these radar sightings
mean, but the most logical explanation is that they are ground targets re-
flected by an atmospheric temperature inversion layer, The validity of this
statement cannot be established, It is felt that radar sightings in this study
are of no significance whatsoever unless a visual sighting of the object also
is made,

Taken in conjunction with the Chi Square Tests discussed earlier,

the results of the re-evaluation of reports identified as UNKNOWN
SIGHTINGS would seem to indicate that the majority of them could easily

77

have been familiar objects. However, the resolution of this question with
any degree of certainty appears to be impossible.

Thus, out of the 434 OBJECT SIGHTINGS that were identified as.

UNKNOWNS by the data reduction process, there were only 12 that were
described with sufficient detail that they could be used in an attempt to

derive a model of a "flying saucer"', The following is a summary of the 12
good UNKNOWN SIGHTINGS:

Case I (Serial 0573.00)

Two men employed by a rug-cleaning firm were driving across a
bridge at 0955 hours on July 29, 1948, when they saw an object glide across
the road a few hundred feet in front of them. It was shiny and metallic in
construction, about 6 to 8 feet long and 2 feet wide. It was ina flat glide
path at an altitude of about 30 feet and in a moderate turn to the left. It was
seen for only a few seconds and apparently went down in a wooded area,
although no trace of it was found.

These are round cups which protrude

Case II (Serial 4508. 00)

A naval aviation student, his wife, and several others were ata
drive-in movie from 2115 to 2240 hours on April 20, 1952, during which
time they saw several groups of objects fly over. There were from two to
nine objects in a group and there were about 20 groups. The groups of

78

objects flew in a straight line except for some changes in direction
accomplished in a manner like any standard aircraft turn.

The objects were shaped like conventional aircraft. The unaccount-
able feature of the objects was that each had a red glow surrounding it and
was glowing itself, although it was a cloudless night.

Fuzzy area

Case III (Serial 2013.00, 2014.00, and 2014.01)

Two tower operators sighted a light over a city airport at 2020 hours
on January 20, 1951. Since a commercial plane was taking off at this
time, the pilots were asked to investigate this light. They observed it at
2026 hours. According to them, it flew abreast of them at a greater
radius as they made their climbing turn, during which time it blinked some
lights which looked like running lights. While the observing plane was still
in its climbing turn, the object made a turn toward the plane and flew across
its nose. As the two men turned their heads to watch it, it instantly
appeared on their other side flying in the same direction as they were
flying, and then in 2 or 3 seconds it slipped under them, and they did not
see itagain. Total time of the observation was not stated. In appearance,
it was like an airplane with a cigar-shaped body and straight wings, some-
what larger than a B-29. No engine nacelles were observed on the wings.

79 .

Case IV (Serial 4599, 00)

A part-time farmer and a hired hand were curing tobacco at midnight
on July 19, 1952, when they looked up and saw two cigar-shaped objects.
One hovered while the other moved to the east and came back, at which
time both ascended until out of sight. Duration of observation was 3 to 4
minutes. Both had an exhaust at one end, and neither had projections of any
kind. It was stated that they appeared to be transparent and illuminated
from the inside,

Lighted

Exhaust

OE ee

80

Case V (Serial 0565.00 to 0565. 03)

A pilot and copilot were flying a DC-3 at 0340 hours on July 24, 1948,
when they saw an object coming toward them. It passed to the right and
slightly above them, at which time it went into a steep climb and was lost
from sight in some clouds. Duration of the observation was about 10
seconds, One passenger was able to catch a flash of light as the object
passed, The object seemed powered by rocket or jet motors shooting a
trail of fire some 50 feet to the rear of the object. The object had no wings:
or other protrusion and had two rows of lighted windows.

Cockpit
windshield?

Pilot

Windows with
white light

Black

Copilot

81

Case VI (Serial 4822.00)

An instrument technician, while driving from a large city toward an
Air Force base on December 22, 1952, saw an object from his car at 1930
hours. He stopped his car to watch it. It suddenly moved up toward the
zenith in spurts from right to left at an angle of about 45°, It then moved
off in level flight at a high rate of speed, during which maneuver it appeared
white most of the time, but apparently rolled three times showing a red
‘side. About halfway through its roll it showed no light at all. It finally
assumed a position to the south of the planet Jupiter at a high altitude, at
which position it darted back and forth, left and right alternately. Total
time of the observation was 15 minutes. Apparently, the observer just
stopped watching the object,

Deep ted

Case VII (Serial 2728. 00)

A Flight Sergeant saw an object over an Air Force base in Korea at
0842 hours on June 6, 1952, The object flew in a series of spinning and
tumbling actions. It was on an erratic course, first flying level, then
stopping momentarily, shooting straight up, flying level and again tumbling,
then changing course and disappearing into the sun. It reappeared and was
seen flying back and forth across the sun. At one time an F-86 passed
between the observer and the object, He pointed it out to another man who
saw it as it maneuvered near the sun.

Black lines evenly spaced Proportion 7 to 1

(Dimensions are as
shown in observer's
original drawing)

Case VIII (Serial 0576. 00)

An electrician was standing by the bathroom window of his home,

facing west, at 0825 hours on July 31, 1948, when he first sighted an object.

He ran to his kitchen where he pointed out the object to his wife. Total
time in sight was approximately 10 seconds, during which the object flew
on a straight and level course from horizon to horizon, west to east,

Noted shadow

(Ratio approx. 3:1)

84

Case IX (Serial 0066. 00)

A farmer and his two sons, aged 8 and 10, were at his fishing camp
on August 13, 1947. At about 1300 hours, he went to look for the boys,
having sent them to the river for some tape from his boat. He noticed an
object some 300 feet away, 75 feet above the ground. He saw it against
the background of the canyon wall which was 400 feet high at this point. It
was hedge hopping, following the contour of the ground, was sky blue,
about 20 feet in diameter and 10 feet thick, and had pods on the side from
which flames were shooting out. It made a swishing sound. The observer
stated that the trees were highly agitated by the craft as it passed over.
His two sons also observed the object. No one saw the object for more
than a few seconds.

. Side view

End view

Case X (Serial 1119.00)

An employee in the supersonic laboratory of an aeronautical lab-
oratory and some other employees of this lab, were bya river, 2-1/2
miles from its mouth, when they saw an object. The time was about 1700
hours on May 24, 1949. The object was reflecting sunlight when observed
by naked eye. However, he then looked at it with 8-power binoculars, at
which time there was no glare. (Did glasses have filter?) It was of
metallic construction and was seen with good enough resolution to show
that the skin was dirty. It moved off in horizontal flight at a gradually in-
creasing rate of speed, until it seemed to approach the speed of a jet
before it disappeared. No propulsion was apparent. Time of observation
was 2-1/2 to 3 minutes.

Something equivalent

Smoother in
front

to a patch

Direction
of motion

Rough and wrinkled Surface appeared dirty
in rear and spotty in color

86

Case XI (Serial 1550.00)

On March 20, 1950, a Reserve Air Force Captain and an airlines
Captain were flying a commercial airlines flight. At 21:26, the airline
Captain directed the attention of the Reserve Air Force Captain to an object
which apparently was flying at high speed, approaching the airliner from
the south on a north heading. The Reserve Air Force Captain focused his
attention on the object. Both crew members watched it as it passed in front
of them and went out of sight to the right. The observation, which lasted
about 25 to 35 seconds, occurred about 15 miles north of a medium-sized
city. When the object passed in front of the airliner, it was not more than
1/2 mile distant and at an altitude of about 1000 feet higher than the airliner.

The object appeared to be circular, with a diameter of approximately
100 feet and with a vertical height considerably less than the diameter,
giving the object a disc-like shape. In the top center was a light which was
blinking at an estimated 3 flashes per second. This light was so brilliant
that it would have been impossible to look at it continuously had it not been
blinking. This light could be seen only when the object was approaching
and after it had passed the airliner. When the object passed in front of the
observers, the bottom side was visible. The bottom side appeared to have
9 to 12 symmetrical oval or circular portholes located in a circle approxi-
mately 3/4 of the distance from the center to the outer edge. Through these
portholes came a soft purple light about the shade of aircraft fluorescent
lights. The object was traveling ina straight line without spinning. Con-
sidering the visibility, the length of time the object was in sight, and the
distance from the object, the Reserve Air Force Captain estimates the
speed to be in excess of 1000 mph,

87

Case XII (Serial 3601.00)

At 0535 on the morning of August 25, 1952, a musician for a radio
station was driving to work from his home when he noticed an object
hovering about 10 feet above a field near the road along which he was
driving. As he came abreast of the object, he stopped his car and got out
to watch. Having an artificial leg, he could not leave the road, since the
surrounding terrain was rough. However, he was within about 100 yards
of it at the point he was standing on the road. The object was not absolutely
still, but seemed to rock slightly as it hovered. When he turned off the
motor of his car, he could hear a deep throbbing sound coming from the
object. As he got out of the car, the object began a vertical ascent with a
sound similar to ''a large covey of quail starting to fly at one time'', The
object ascended vertically through broken clouds until out of sight. His
view was not obscured by clouds. The observer states that the vegetation
was blown about by the object when it was near the ground,

Description of the object is as follows:
It was about 75 feet long, 45 feet wide, and 15 feet thick, shaped like .

two oval meat platters placed together. It was a dull aluminum color, and
had a smooth surface, A medium-blue continuous light shone through the

. one window in the front section. The head and shoulders of one man, sitting

motionless, facing the forward edge of the object, were visible. In the
midsection of the object were several windows extending from the top to the
rear edge of the object; the midsection of the ship had a blue light which
gradually changed to different shades, There was a large amount of activity
and movement in the midsection that could not be identified as either human
or mechanical, although it did not have a regular pattern of movement.
There were no windows, doors or portholes, vents, seams, etc., visible
to the observer in the rear section of the object or under the object (viewed
at time of ascent). Another identifiable feature was a series of propellers
6 to 12 inches in diameter spaced closely together along the outer edge of
the object. These propellers were mounted ona bracket so that they
revolved in a horizontal plane along the edge of the object. The propellers
were revolving at a high rate of speed. - .

Investigation of the area soon afterward showed some evidence of
vegetation being. blown around, An examination of grass and soil samples
taken indicated nothing unusual, Reliability of the observer was considered

good,

89

These 12 sightings can be classed into four categories on the basis of
their shapes, as follows:

(1) Propeller shape — Case I

(2) Aircraft shape — Cases II and III

(3) Cigar shape — Cases IV and V

(4) Elliptical or disc shape — Cases VI to XII

The criterion for choosing the above sightings was that their descrip-
tions were given in enough detail to permit diagrams of the objects to be
drawn. It might be noted here that in all but one of these cases (Case XI)
the observer had already drawn a diagram of what he had seen.

The objective of this section of the study was the conceiving of a
model, or models. The requirement that the description be detailed is an
important one, and was the easiest to determine in the re-evaluation pro-
gram. However, a good model ought to satisfy the following conditions as
well:

(1) The general shape of the object and the maneuvers it
performed should fit the reports of many of the UNKNOWNS
and thus explain them.

The observer and the report should be reliable,

(3) The report should contain elements which should have
been observed with accuracy, and which eliminate the
possibility that the sighting could be ascribed toa
familiar object or to a known natural phenomenon.

(4) The model should be derived from two or more good
UNKNOWNS between which there is no essential conflict,

It can be shown that it is not possible to deduce a model from the 12
cases that will satisfy all of these conditions. The following case-by-case
discussion of the 12 good UNKNOWNS will! illustrate this point:

(1) Case I does not satisfy Conditions 1 and 4. The reported
shape of this object is not duplicated in any of the other
UNKNOWNS.

(2) Case II does not satisfy Conditions 1 and 3. There are
very few UNKNOWNS in the aircraft shape classification.
In addition, the unusual characteristic of this sighting
(i.e., the red glow) could have been reflection of the
lights of Flint from the objects if they were either birds
or aircraft,

91

i
i
l
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i

(3) Case III does not satisfy Condition 1. It also does not
satisfy Condition 4 when Case II is eliminated as a
good UNKNOWN.

(4) Case IV does not satisfy Conditions 1 or 2. There are
few cigar-shaped or rocket-shaped objects reported in
the literature. In addition, this observer is not con-
‘sidered to be well-qualified technically.

(5) Case V does not satisfy Condition 1. It also does not
satisfy Condition 4 when Case IV is eliminated as a
good UNKNOWN.

It might be argued here that many of the UNKNOWNS might actually
have shapes similar to these good UNKNOWNS. It will be noted, however,
that each of these five cases does not satisfy one of the other three condi-
tions.

(6) Case VI does not satisfy Condition 2. In the description
of the object, it was stated that at certain times there
was no light seen from the object. Apparently, the
"band of no light'', as diagrammed by the observer, was
an attempt to explain this, However, if the object were
constructed as shown in the diagram, light should have
been seen atall times. Because of this conflict the
drawing is not considered reliable, and without the draw-
ing, there is not enough detail in the description to make
it useful for this study.

(7) Case VII violates Conditions | and 4. Although the shape
is disc-like, the maneuvers performed by the object are
unique both among the UNKNOWNS and among the good
UNKNOWNS.

Cases VIII to XII satisfy Conditions 1 through 3, but they do not
satisfy Condition 4. The features which make them different from each
other are as follows:

(8) Case VIII. The object is smooth, with no protrusions
or other details.

(9) Case IX. The object had rocket or jet pods on each
side that were shooting out flames.

(10) Case X. The.object had a fin or rudder,
(11) Case XI. The object had a series of portholes, or

windows, on its under side.

92

(12) Case XII. The object had windows in its top and front
and its top midsection, It also had a set of propellers
around its waist.

It is not possible, therefore, to derive a verified model ofa ''flying
saucer’! from the data that have been gathered to date. This point is im-
portant enough to emphasize, Out of about 4,000 people who said they saw
a "flying saucer", sufficiently detailed descriptions were given in only 12
cases. Having culled the cream of the crop, it is still impossible to develop
a picture of what a "flying saucer" is.

In addition to this study of the good UNKNOWNS, an attempt was made
to find groups of UNKNOWNS for which the observed characteristics were
the same. No such groups were found.

On the basis of this evidence, therefore, there is a low probability
that any of the UNKNOWNS represent observations of a class of "flying
saucers", It may be that some reports represent observations of not one
but several classes of objects that might have been "flying saucers";
however, the lack of evidence to confirm even one class would seem to make
this possibility remote. It is pointed out that some of the cases of KNOWNS,
before identification, appeared fully as bizarre as any of the 12 cases of
good UNKNOWNS, and, in fact, would have been placed in the class of good
UNKNOWNS had it not been possible to establish their identity.

This is, of course, contrary to the bulk of the publicity that has been
given to this problem, The reason for the nature of this publicity was
clearly brought out during the re-evaluation study. It is a definite fact that
upon reading a few reports, the reader becomes convinced that "flying
saucers'' are real and are some form of sinister contrivance. This reaction
is independent of the training of the reader or of his attitude toward the
problem prior to the initial contact. It is unfortunate that practically all of
the articles, books, and news stories dealing with the phenomenon of the
"flying saucer" were written by men who were in this category, that is,
men who had read only a few selected reports. This is accentuated by the
fact that, as a rule, only the more lurid-sounding reports are cited in these
publications, Were it not for this common psychological tendency to be
captivated by the mysterious, it is possible that no problem of this nature
would exist.

The reaction, mentioned above, that after reading a few reports, the
reader is convinced that "flying saucers" are real and are some form of
sinister contrivance, is very misleading. As more and more of the reports
are read, the feeling that "saucers" are real fades, and is replaced by a
feeling of skepticism regarding their existence.. The reader eventually
reaches a point of saturation, after which the reports contain no new infor-
mation at all and are no longer of any interest. This feeling of surfeit was
universal among the personnel who worked on this project, and continually
necessitated a conscious effort on their part to remain objective.

93

CONCLUSIONS

It can never be absolutely proven that "flying saucers" do not exist.
This would be true if the data obtained were to include complete scientific
measurements of the attributes of each sighting, as well as complete and
detailed descriptions of the objects sighted. It might be possible to demon-
strate the existence of "flying saucers" with data of this type, IF they were
to exist.

Although the reports considered in this study usually did not contain
scientific measurements of the attributes of each sighting, it was possible
to establish certain valid conclusions by the application of statistical
methods in the treatment of the data. Scientifically evaluated and arranged,
the data as a whole did not show any marked patterns or trends. The in-
accuracies inherent in this type of data, in addition to the incompleteness of
a large proportion of the reports, may have obscured any patterns or trends
that otherwise would have been evident. This absence of indicative relation-
ships necessitated an exhaustive study of selected facets of the data in order
to draw any valid conclusions.

A critical examination of the distributions of the important char-
acteristics of sightings, plus an intensive study of the sightings evaluated
as UNKNOWN, led to the conclusion that a combination of factors, prin-
cipally the reported maneuvers of the objects and the unavailability of

supplemental data such as aircraft flight plans or balloon-launching records,

resulted in the failure to identify as KNOWNS most of the reports of objects
classified as UNKNOWNS.

An intensive study, aimed at finding a verified example of a "flying
saucer" or at deriving a verified model or models of "flying saucers" (as
defined on Page 1), led to the conclusion that neither goal could be attained
using the present data.

It is emphasized that there was a complete lack of any valid evidence
consisting of physical matter in any case of a reported unidentified aerial
object.

Thus, the probability that any of the UNKNOWNS considered in this
study are ''flying saucers" is concluded to be extremely small, since the
most complete and reliable reports from the present data, when isolated
and studied, conclusively failed to reveal even a rough model, and since
the data as a whole failed to reveal any marked patterns or trends.

Therefore, on the basis of this evaluation of the information, it is
considered to be highly improbable that any of the reports of unidentified
aerial objects examined in this study represent observations of technologi-
cal developments outside the range of present-day scientific knowledge.

94

INDEX OF TABLES

Page
Table Al. Evaluation of All Sightings by Years 2. 6. 01 6 ee we ee ew e107
Table AZ. Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Years . 2. 6 6 ee ew ee ee ee 107
Table A3. Evaluation of Object Sightings by Years 2. 2. 6 6 6 6 ee ee ee ee ww 108
Table A4. Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, All Years, 6 6 ee ee ee 109
Table A5. Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1947 . . 2. 2. . 2. eee eee ee eee 10
Table A6, Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1948 2. 2... ww ee eee ee ee TD
Table A7. Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1949 2. 2. 2. 1 2. ee eee ee eee
Table A8, Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1950 . 2. 2. . 1. 2 1 1 ew ew ee ee et 113

Table AY. Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1951 . 2. 2. 2 6 ee ee ee ee ee ee 14

Table AlO, Evaluation of All Sightings by Month of Year, 1952 2. 2. 6. 6 6 we ee ee ee ee
Table All. Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, All Years . 2. . 2. 2. 2. 1 e+ we e © ee ee) 6116
Table Al2. Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1947 . 2. 2 6 6 ee ee ee ee ee dD

Table Al3, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1948 . 2. 2. 2. 2 1 ee we ee ee ee ee
Table Al4, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1949 . 2. 0. 6 6 ee ee ee ee eee DY
Table A15. Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1950 . 2. 2. . 2 ee ee ee ee ee 120
Table Al6, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1951 . 2. 2. e 1 6 ee ee ee ee ee DD

Table Al7, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Month of Year, 1952 . 2. 2. . 2 6 we ee ee ee ee ee 122

Table Al8, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, All Years rs 1,
Table Al9, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1947 . 2. 2. 2. 2. . 1 ee ee eee ee
Table AZO. Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1948 . 2. 2... ee ee ee ee eee RS
Table A21. Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1949 2. 1. 1 1 we ee ee ee ee 126
Table A22, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1950 . 2. 2. 2. 6. 6 8 ew ee ee ee ee RT
Table A23, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1951 . 2. 2. 2. we ew ewe ee eee 128
Table A24, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Month of Year, 1952 2. 2. 2. 1. 1. we ee ee eee ee 1D
Table A25, Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, All Years . . . . . . . - « «© « 130
Table A26, Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1947 . . 2. 1. 1. ee ee eee (80
Table A27, Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1948 . . . . . 2. 2. «. « ». « « ~ 130
Table A28, Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1949 . . 2. . 2... 1 e ee ee (130
Table A29, Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1950 . . . 2... 1. ee we we ee O31
Table A30. Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1951 . . . . . . 1 ee eee Od
Table A31, Evaluation of All Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1952 . . . . . 1. 1. 1 ee we O32
Table A32, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, All Years . . . . . . . . . «. . 132
Table A33, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1947. . . . . 2. . «© « © « « ~ 132

97

Table A34,
Table A35,
Table A36,
Table A37,
Table A38,
Table A39,
Table A40,
Table A4l,
Table A42,
Table A43,
Table A44,
Table A45,

Table A46,

Table A47,

Table A48,

Table A49,

Table A50,

Table ASl,

Table A52,

Table A53.

Table A54,

Table A55,

Table A56,

Table A57,

Table A58,

INDEX OF TABLES
(Continued)

Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1948. . .
Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1949. . .
Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1950. . .
Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1951. ,. .
Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1952. . .
Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, All Years
Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1947 . .
Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1948 . .
Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1949 . .
Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1950 . .
Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1951 .

Evaluation of Object Sightings by Sighting Reliability Groups, 1952 . .

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Military Observers . 2. 2. 6. 1 6 2 6 6 e we ew te ew te

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Civilian Observers 2. 6 6 6 4 6 ee ee et

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1947 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Military Observers . 2. 2. 6 2 © © e © © @ eo we ew ee

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1947 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Civilian Observers . 2. 2. 6 2 2 © © © © © © © e oe ee

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1948 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Military Observers . 2. 2. 2 2 6 © © «© © © © © © 6 @

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1948 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Civilian Observers . . 6 6 2 2 6 © © © © © © we we ew

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1949 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Military Observers . . . 2. 2. 6 «© 6 «@ + «© «© © se ew

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1949 by Sighting Reliability Groups,

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1950 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Military Observers . . 2. 2 6 1 6 6 ee © eo ew we ew

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1950 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Civilian Observers . . . . oe ee oe 8 ee

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1951 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Military Observers . . 2. 0. 6 6 6 e 6 © © © © © © © ©

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1951 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Civilian Observers . . 2 6 6 1 6 © © © 2 © © @ oe ee

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1952 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Military Observers . . 2. 2. 2. 6 2 6 ee we ew ee ew we

98

133
133
133
134
134
134
134
135
135

135
136
136
136

136

137
137
137
138
138
138
138

139

Table A59,

Table A60,
Table A6l,
Table A62,
Table A63,
Table A64,
Table A65,

Table A66,

Table A67,

Table A68,

Table A69.

Table A70,

Table A71,

Table A72,

Table A73,

Table A74,

Table A75,

Table A76,

Table A77,

Table A78.

Table A79,

Table A80,

Table A8l,

Table A82,

INDEX OF TABLES
(Continued)

Evaluation of All Sightings for 1952 by Sighting Reliability Groups,
Civilian Observers a a ar)

Reported Colors of Objects Sighted by Years, All Sightings . . . .

Reported Colors of Objects Sighted by Years, Unit Sightings . . . . .
Reported Colors of Objects Sighted by Years, Object Sightings . .. .
Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported . . . . .
Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported ee 8
Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported . . . .

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
One Object 2. 2. 1. 1 6 ew we ee we tt ee

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
Two Objects. 2. 1. 6 8 ee wt we

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
Three to Ten Objects. 6. 6. 6 8 ee ee ew

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
Eleven or More Objects . . 2. 1. 6 6 e es ee we . .

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,
Number of Objects Not Stated . 2. 2. 1. 1 ew ew ww ee le

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

One Object 2. 2. 6. 6 ew 6 ew ee ee ee

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

Two Objects. 6. 6 6 ee ee

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

Three to Ten Objects. 2. 6 6 we we

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects P per Sighting,

Eleven or More Objects . 2. . 0. ee ew et te ew tw .

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

Number of Objects Not Stated . . . 1. 1. 2 6 1 we we el

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

One Object 2. . 1 6 we wee ee ee

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

Two Objects, 2. 2. 6 6 6 ew ee ee we

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

Three to Ten Objects... 1 ew eh ee ee

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

Eleven or More Objects. 2... 6 06 4 6 ee te tw ee

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting,

Number of Objects Not Stated . . . 1 0. 1 ew ee we we
Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, All Years. . . .

Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1947 . . . .. .

99

139

140

140

140

141

142

143

144

144

145

145

146

147

147

148

148

149

150

150

151

151

152

153

i
i
INDEX OF TABLES
(Continued)
Page i
Table A83, Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1948 . . . 2. 1. 4. 2. ee eee ee 154
Table A84, Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1949 . . . . 0.0. 0. ee eee “154 |
Table A85, Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1950 . . . 2... 2 1 1 eee eee 155
Table A86, Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1951 a 155 |
Table A87, Evaluation of All Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 19520 «© 2. 6 1 ee ee ee ee 156
Table A88, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, All Years . . ... .. . re rer) 157 |
Table A89, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1947 . .:. 2. 2. 6 6 6 6 ee ee ee 157
Table A90, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1948 . . 2. 1. 1 1 1 ee ee ee 158 |
Table A91, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1949 . . 2. 2. 1 1. we ee ee 158
Table A92, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1950 . . . 2. . 2. 2. 6 6 ee ew ee 159 |
Table A93, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1951 . . . . 2. 1. 1 ee ee ee 159
Table A94, Evaluation of Unit Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1952 . 2... 1. 1. 1 ue ep ew ee ee 160 i
Table A95, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, All Years. . . . . 1. 1 se ew ew a 161
Table A96, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1947 . 2. 1. 6 6. 1 4 ew ew te ee ee 161 |
Table A97, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1948 . . . 2. 1. 2. ee ew ee ee 162
Table A98, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1949 . . 2... 1. 1 ew we ew ee ele 162 |
Table A99,. Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1950 . . . . 1. 0. 1 ee ee ee 163
Table A100, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sightings, 1951. . . . . 1... wee eels 163 |
Table A101, Evaluation of Object Sightings by Duration of Sighting, 1952 . . . 2. 1. 2 ww eee ee 164
Table Al02, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Five Seconds or Less . . 2. 1 2 6 ee et ww we 165 |
Table A103, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Sixto Ten Seconds , 2. 2. 6. 6 6 ee ee ee 166
Table A104, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months |
of Year, Eleven to Thirty Seconds . . 2. 2. 1. 6. 6 6 6 ee ee ee ee 167
Table Al05, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months |
of Year, Thirty One to Sixty Seconds . . 6. 6 1 6 ee te ee ee 168
Table A106, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Sixty One Seconds to Five Minutes . . .0. 1 6 7 ee we ee ee ee 169 |
Table Al07, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Sixto Thirty Minutes 2. 2 2. 6. 6 6 6 ee ee ee ee ee 170
Table Al08, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months |
of Year, Over Thirty Minutes 2. 2. 6. 0/01 we ee ee ee 171
Table A109, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months i
of Year, Duration Not Stated. . . 2. 0. 6 ee ew ee ee ew ee 172
i
i
i
100
I

INDEX OF TABLES
| (Continued)
Page
Table A110, Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Five Seconds or Less . 2. 1. 1 2 6 6 ee ee eee ee ee 173
Table Alll, Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
| of Year, Six to Ten Seconds . . 2. 2 6 6 ee we ee ee ee ee 174
Table All2, Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Eleven to Thirty Seconds . . 2. 1. 6 6 6 8 © © © ee te eo ee ee 175
| Table A113, Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Thirty One toSixty Seconds . 2. 2. 2. 1. 6 2 ee ee ee ee es 176
Table All4, Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
| of Year, Sixty One Seconds to Five Minutes ,. 2.0. 2. 1 06 ew ew te et 177
Table Al15, Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Sixto Thirty Minutes . 2. 2. 2. 1 2. 6 6 8 ee ee we ee ee lt 178
| Table Al16, Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Over Thirty Minutes ee 8 ee ee eee ew ee le 179
Table A117, Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months .
of Year, Duration Not Stated. . 2. 2. 2 2 6 6 6 e 6 ee ee we ee te 180
Table All18,. Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
| of Year, Five Seconds or Less . 2. 2. 2. 1 ee 1 ee ee ee ee 181
Table All9, Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Sixto Ten Seconds . . 2. 2. 1 6 6 6 ee ee ew ee we we ee ee 182
| Table Al20, Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Eleven to Thirty Seconds . . 2. 2. 6 6 ee we ee ee 183
Table AlZ1. Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months ;
| of Year, Thirty One to Sixty Seconds . 2. 2. 2. 2 1 6 6 6 ee we ee ew we ee 184
Table Al22, Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Sixty One Seconds to Five Minutes . 2... 6. fee ee ee et 185
| Table Al23, Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Six to Thirty Minutes . 2. 2. 6. 1. 6 6 ee we ee ee ee 186
Table Al24, Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
of Year, Over Thirty Minutes . 2. 1. 2. 2 46 ew ee ee we ee 187
Table Al25, Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Duration of Sighting for Months
| of Year, Duration Not Stated. . . 6. 2 2 6 ee ee et ee ek 188
Table Al26, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Elliptical . . . . . ..... 189
| Table A127, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Rocket and Aircraft oe ee ele 189
Table A128, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Meteor or Comet a a 190
Table A129, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Lenticular, Conical,
or Teardrop . 6. 6. 1 1 ee ee ke ee ee ee ee ee ee e190
Table A130, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Flame . . . . .. 2. 0. ee 191
| Table Al31, Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Other Shapes . . . . . .... 191
Table A132. Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Shape NotStated. . . ... .. 192

Table A133,
Table A134,
Table A135.

Table A136.

Table A137,
Table A138.
Table A139,
Table A140,
Table Al4l,
Table Al42,

Table Al43,

Table A144,
Table Al45,
Table A146,
Table Al47,

Table Al48,
Table Al49,
Table A150,
Table Alsi,
Table Al52,

Table A153.

Table Al54,
Table A155,
Table A156,
Table A157,

Table A158,

INDEX OF TABLES
(Continued)

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Elliptical .

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Rocket and Aircraft

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Meteor or Comet

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Lenticular,
Conical, or Teardrop . 2. 6 4 6 4 6 es 6 6 ew ew ee ee

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Flame . .

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Other Shapes.

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Shape Not Stated

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Elliptical

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Rocket and Aircraft

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Meteor or Comet

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Lenticular,

Conical, or Teardrop . 2. 1. 1 1 6 1 6 ee ee ee ee

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Flame ,

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Shape of Object, Other Shapes .

Evaluation of Object Sightings for Ail Years by Shape of Object, Shape Not Stated
Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Stationary

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Less

Than One Hundred Miles per Hour . . . . . . . 4 © «© « ©

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, One

Hundred to Four Hundred Miles per Hour «8 © © © ew ew ew ee

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Over

Four Hundred Miles per Hour . . . . . - 2. © © © © © ©

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,

Meteor-Like Speeds. 2. 1. 6 ee ee ee ee

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
Speed Not Stated . 2. 6. 1. 1 6 we ee ee

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Stationary.

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Less Than

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, One Hundred

to Four Hundred Miles per Hour Ce

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Over

Four Hundred Miles per Hour ee ee ee lw ee

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
Meteor-Like Speeds. 2. . 2. 2. 2. 1 6 6 © © © 6 ew we ew we

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
Speed Not Stated . 2. 2. 1. 7 1 1 ew ee ee ee

102

197,
197

198

198
199

199

202

_ 203

203

204

204

205

205

206

206

Table A159,

Table A160.
Table Al6l,
Table Al62,
Table A163,
Table A164,

Table A165,
Table A166,
Table A167.
Table A168,
Table A169,
Table A170,
Table Al71,
Table A172,
Table A173,
Table A174,

Table A175,
Table Al76,
Table A177,
Table A178.
Table Al79.
Table A180,
Table Al8l.
Table A182.

Table A183.

INDEX OF TABLES
(Continued)

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Stationary .

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Less
Than One Hundred Miles per Hour . . . . 2 «2 «© «© © «© «© © © «© ¢

Elevation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, One
Hundred to Four Hundred Miles per Hour. . . . .« « «© 5» «© «© «© © ©

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects, Over
Four Hundred Miles per Hour, . . . . . 1. 1 1 se + ee we ee

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
Meteor-Like Speeds... 6 6 6 we ew et el

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Reported Speeds of Objects,
Speed Not Stated, . 2. 2. 2. 1 6 © @ eo we ew ee we ee ee

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Light Brightness. . . . .. .
Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Light Brightness . . . .. .
Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Light Brightness . . . .

Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, All Years ,
Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1947 .
Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1948 -
Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1949 a)
Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1950 oo.
Location of Observer During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1951 . . .
Location of Observers During Sighting by Months for All Sightings, 1952 .

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, White or Glowing White Objects. . . . 2. 2. .« «© s+ © « «

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Metallic Objects . 2. . 2. 0. e+ 6 1 et et we we le le

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Object Color Not Stated . . 1. 2. 1. 6 2 © «© ee ew

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Orange or Glowing Orange Objects. . . . « «© © «© «© «© «

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Red or Glowing Red Objects . 2. . 4. 1 1 6 «© 6 «@ we ws

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Green or Glowing Green Objects . . . 2. 2 2 « «© «©

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Yellow or Glowing Yellow Objects . . . 1. 2. . 2. 2 2 «©

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Objects of Other Colors . . 2. . 1. 6. 6 e+ «6 1 e+ ew ee

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, White or Glowing White Objects. 2. . 2. 1. 6. 2. ew ee

103

207

208

208

209

212
213
214
215
216
217
218

219

220

221

221

222

223

224

Table A184,

Table A185,

Table A186,

Table A187,

Table A188,

Table A189,

Table A190,

Table Al9l,

Table Al92,

Table Al93.

Table A194,

Table A195,

Table A196,

Table Al97,

Table A198,

Table Al99,

Table A200,

Table A201,

Table A202,

Table A203,

Table A204,

Table A205,

INDEX OF TABLES
(Continued)

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Metallic Objects . . - 6. 6 6 6 6 6 + 6 6 ew ee

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Object Color Not Stated . . 2. 2. . © 2 «© «© «© e

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Orange or Glowing Orange Objects. 2. . 6. «© «© 2 «© =

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Red or Glowing Red Objects . 2. 2. 2. «4 6 6 © 2 «=

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Green or Glowing Green Objects . . 2. 2. 2. 2+ «© + «

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Yellow or Glowing Yellow Objects . . 2. 2. « «© «© «© 2 «

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Objects of Other Colors ., . 2. 2. 6 «© © © © «© «© @ ©

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, White or Glowing White Objects. 2. 2. 2. 2. «© «© © 8 «© f

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Metallic Objects . 2. 2. 1. 6 6 6 ee ee ew we ee

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Object Color Not Stated 2. 2. 2. 1. 0. 6 1 1 6 ew ew ee

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Orange or Glowing Orange Objects. . . . . . ...

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Red or Glowing Red Objects . . 2. 2. . «© «© © «© © © ©

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Green or Glowing Green Objects, . 2. 2. 1. 2. 2. «© » sw

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Yellow or Glowing Yellow Objects . . . 2. . . 2. «2.

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Colors Reported for Duration
of Sighting, Objects of Other Colors . . . 2. 1 1 4 8 «© 6 we we

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, One Object . . 6. 1. 6. 6 6 1 we we we ew

Evaluation of All Sightings for Ali Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, Two Objects . . 1. 1. 6 6 6 te et

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, Three to Ten Objects . . . . «4 .« «6 © «ws

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, Eleven or More Objects . . . . .« « 2 « «

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, Number of Objects Not Stated . . . . . . .

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, One Object . . . . 2. 1. 2 1 ee eee

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, Two Objects .

225

225

228

228

229

229

230

230

231

232

232

234

235

235

Table A206.

Table A207,

Table A208,

Table A209,

Table A210.

Table A211,

Table A212,

Table A213,

Table A214,
Table A215,
Table A216,
Table A217,
Table A218,
Table A219,
Table A220,
Table A221,
Table A222,
Table A223,
Table A224,
Table A225,
Table A226,
Table A227,
Table A228,
Table A229,
Table A230,
Table A231,

Table A232,

INDEX OF TABLES
(Continued)

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, Three to Ten Objects . 2. . 1. 6. 1. ew ee

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, Eleven or More Objects . . . . 2. 2. ew ee

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, Number of Objects Not Stated . . . . . . .

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, One Object . . 2. 2. 2. 6 © «© © ew we ew

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, Two Objects . . 2. 2. 1. 1 6 we ee te

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting

for Duration of Sighting, Three to Ten Objects . 2. 2. 1. 2. + 6 6 ew ew

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting

for Duration of Sighting, Eleven or More Objects . . 2. 2. 6 . se se ew

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Number of Objects per Sighting
for Duration of Sighting, Number of Objects NotStated ,. . .... .

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by Geographic Location . . . .
Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by Geographic Location. . . ,
Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by Geographic Location . . .

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by North American Location, .,

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by North American Location . . .

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by North American Location . .

Evaluation of All Sightings for All Years by United States Regional Location

Evaluation of Unit Sightings for All Years by United States Regional Location .

Evaluation of Object Sightings for All Years by United States Regional Location

Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central East Region

Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central Midwest Region

Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central Farwest Region

Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South Midwest Region .

Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South West Region .

Evaluation of All Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South Farwest Region .

Evaluation of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central East Region .

Evaluation of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central Midwest Region

Evaluation of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the Central Farwest Region

Evaluation of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South Midwest Region

105

239

239

240
241
241
242
243
243
244
245
246
247
248
248
248
249
249
249
250
250
250

251

Table A233,
Table A234,
Table A235,
Table A236,
Table A237,
Table A238,

Table A239.

Table A240,

Evaluation

Evaluation

Evaluation

Evaluation

Evaluation

Evaluation

Evaluation

Evaluation

INDEX OF TABLES

(Continued)

of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South West Region

of Unit Sightings in the Strategic Areas of the South Farwest Region

of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas
of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas
of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas
of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas
of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas

of Object Sightings in the Strategic Areas

106

of the Central East Region .
of the Central Midwest Region
of the Central Farwest Region
of the South Midwest Region .
of the South West Region ,

of the South Farwest Region .

252

252

252

253

253

THBLE ALF vaL aT OE

GILh. SIGATLING §

BY YEARS

ALL

PRS.

194,

LIY

Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
in | Doubtful] Fotal [Certain | Doubtful! Total FCertain { Doubtful} Total {Certain | Doubtful ‘ertain | Doubtful! Total [Certain | Doubtful
[fa tko\ $4 5 o\ Wa =f Z| 22 | #7
ff LY9| 10.b | 255 & (A sabd
oe (4/4 fol ws Z fo\| F|Y
ay 12\_ 28\ 18 g Z| 6
Zb| 231 of 2 2] ¢| =
OL, 24) 26 A “| gi a
ZPE| £F| GO| LZ ZA | als?
L2| OF'\ 45) zZ at /
2s| QO 26 ZA rol Al 2
25, £1 Ze 2 el
2300| gor \z2o/\ 7 A 29 /\e. A 1u7) sel ye 2loo Wey [228 bk 25 | sis

Number

Number Per Cent

Doubtful

Coubtful

Certain| Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubttul | Tota

boat

Astronomical

2-Aircraft

'3-Light Phenom. ”

4-Birds

5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

Gtnsuffic. Info.

7-Psychological

&-Unknown

iz Total

Evaluation

0-Batloon

april Total {Certain
aoa

Astronomical

2-Aircraft

3-Light Phenom.

}4-Birds

5-Clouds, Oust, etc.

G-insuffic. Info.

7-Psychological

& Unknown

'9-Other

SRY IS 1D I [S [D fe [ogi

US| 0.0 | Mb

7

Total

S76) 124 LF

Per Cent ©

Number Per Ceat

Evaluation Total [Certain Doubtful] Total Certain | Doubtful! Total | Certain | Doubtte! | Tota
(0-Batloon ZZ\¢
1-Astronomical 2 \05.5
2-Aircraft 5h S|
3-Light Phenom, 17 [Zz .
4-Birds CTI\L7
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. LE\O0
G-tnsuffic. Info. 2O\|02
7-Psychological AWA A _
8-Unknown G22 \27
9-Other 2\E8

ol Zod id. 1/27

107

Pet Cont

Merk
t Number
in! Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtha] Total [Certain | Doubttul] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttuf Total | Certain | Davbtful | Total

Number

OME.

Pes Cent

(MLM Ae

S7Age cud

oS

Pe Cent
110

Number

TABLE AS EYQLYATION GF hth SIGH
Vu AA
Number Pes Cent
Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain | 7

a] if} igigis 2/3
Bagel elgeaidis jz el
EAE r HE

Weple._ fe EVAL VATION ~All Sieh Mes bY Mowi OE VEAL _ ILE
LEGRUARL SUA REL APTI e
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Gertain | Doubttu!| Total SCertain | Ooubthul | Total [Certain] Doubtful] Tota! [Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful] Tota! [Certain Doubtful] Total | Certain Doubtful | Total
00| ool pol ol ol ol ae aol oe) 21 0 00 \th/
8 0 2 4| 2422 20 D g bth $¢3
J o0| dol ol ol ol eal Be 2 2. \f67
2 Zo| pol ol el of aol ae ol oe p.0| 0
° Q G0| ool 2 tA, O\20| 22! 2 o Lf
oO 0.0| Gof 2 2 Ol 22| 20|4 Q 0 | pol ae |
2) 20 222| 0 |2ay4 /| 2 0.0| &6|
D Zo\ bol O| 2 | 2 | 0.0| 20 o| 2 0.01 28
2 0.0\| Gol /| 2 TAA AUAL 0 b b
a 2o0\ 20 4 0.0 ifs 0 wyi 0,01 2.0
? \o9s\222\40. | 7 \srslunsl|o lio! ¢ |/F |[ss6l4gq| vo.
JUNE Jv te Av EUST
Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent
Doubtful] Total {Certain Doubtful] Total |Certain| Doubtful] Total [Certain a Doubtful Total } Certain | Doubthil | Total ;
O| 3 |sn6! ol spol ¥| / | ols Z| 2140 | paiifz
[alo gol a0 ade Lbs ; TRilesgaraven
, alo | a0 aol © 21 7 [eas Ly i ztas| g,lg2
F| 5 | 20|S0.01 $00 oe Ll OlelZol acl og
olo | ao} ». eat 2 ( ol ol piazol 2o| po
Clo \pfol ool Gal ?| oO O| @lelaol ce! oo
010\|gaoel gol eal alo o| fl ol +l esl aol gz
ate eet et
2 20 Ab, 20) il 2 el ele) eo} color
Q2|\|0120| O0\ oo Q A) a 2| @2\/% 217g
YSHUO0 [ 3|£ {sao jeaoloo 12g 1/3 139 (66.7133.3{00. Z| 1 \x462b boo,

SEPTEM LE Oc70 LER NOVEM BPEL.
Number Per Cent Numbes Pes Cent Number
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Totat |Certain| Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful{ Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful) Total [Certain
f-Baloon o| 3! 2| aolsasizzs] 5 a4 lazizooly7| (| 51 6| 50
Astronomical olf OD (25 12, 3l uy 0.0\/2.3| Fl _/| 8 las
[ ft 2bast2stacol » | ol 7 [221 22 4| 0| 4 |200
ola 24.26; 6.2} 20) ‘| ol 7 |33 eo} 23 e| 2 ‘ol
2 22} ee do! ¢ /}| +} 2443] 231] Zal 0 210 Q.0
ol ol et eol aolaol ol o| 2 [oo 2280 ol olf | 40
A 0 2 18 2 G26 Col Ol Ole 0
ol ob o[ 2 | gelézl ol pl Olos
| ol elecl aol os AWA Ft
Tota 1330 AVAL b |2z0 [740

LCMTLIVES.

ULL a Le

1-Astronomical

2Aiscraft

3-Light Phenom.

1-Astrenomical

2-Aircraft

Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain ertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Ooubtfull Total
[Balloon 4 ‘| slaei zavit ¢ I ol 2-0] sof 0
LAstronomical gq 1/4 | 200] / O| sq
[niet 6| 3| 9 al 4 20
3-Light Phenom, 0 oO
4-Birds 0 Zi
'5-Clouds, Dust, etc. b oO
G-Insuffic. Info, “/ a
7-Psychologicat o oe
B-Unknown b T 0
$-Other a
Total Al 114
Number
Evaluation {Certain | Doubt
O-Balloon / Oo

3-Light Phenom.

}4-Birds

§-Clouds, Oust, etc.

§-Insutfic. Info.

7-Psychotogical

112

LE (a ta £6, WES BY ta Tt ae Ee LLEO
£ EBRUAR (dare APRIL
Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Doubtful Total Certain [ Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doutttul} Total [Certain {Doubtful | Tota
z 0.01 6) o| 3 t 4. ob} Gif 13) 3 ble. 42 a3 ral a 0.0 34
2. sog4 3) 4l ap ail valfaal @] of Pit] aelitl 6 EXIM Wile?
S| 001,05) 6] | gal odlival ;al 4! yelwerl sbi aaa] é) al ¢]0.71 a.nh09
6.0] 0. oo| Of| 0.0] o| of o| 9di 00| ool 6 .
. . 0o| 00! 0.0 Ol ol 08] a2] aol o
od| 0.3] 6.0 o| of op| 60] oa] 2
0} 3 1Pil ool Pi v
O| 0] 40} 0.0) ad
O| 15|20.8| 9.0 |a0F

LL | 72 |84.7\5.3 Yoo. | 27

Jycy
Number Number Pes Cent
i Dosti! Total | Certain Total {Certain} Doubtful] Total | Certain] Doubtful] Total fCertain | Doubtful] Total {Certain i
2) a 08
o| 7 WY)
a ad a
) ae o
Py) 0.0 b
‘ a6 2
aa 2
o Obs. g
é| 0.02 Vi
/ Y.2ybe. Z

NOVEVIGER DECEMBER

Number Number Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful in | Doubttul] Total {Certain | Doubtful} Total {Certain Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubttul | Total
0-Balloon =| 0 2| 2 4 6 | 65)2.9)19-4
b Z| 2d aff 3.2) 9.01 32
a) o| a Ol] oa] 04 0.0) 0.0
a o| 2 al 2 ad 0.0
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 0 a o| Oo} da
lensutic no. | 3] | 6| 7 ol /{ 32
EPsychological al 2 oF | 97 Odi
pe) 7 9} 2] 65| gol 45
23 |5S\VF5 Yoo. | 20 wrt 6% 5135.5 |160.

113

ecrimn

5

LEHTA
114

Total [Cestain! Doubttul] Total

174

Doubtful

Goubiful] Total Certain

thal] Total [Certain | Doubthsl] Total {Certain} Doubtful

SEPTEMBER

Number
Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain

LE

Certain | Doub

J 3 ry
| [8 =| ls : a 25
gis) |f) 18 a ia jf fgaia a |B |g
g i é : 3 “| 3| Bi E 2 Biel & wi sl Bl
ESigib gee z elif dlaelga]iidis z 2] 8/8 8) a) 2] 8/4) #] 2/2] 12
{8.221 31818 | 18/2/21 3) 8] §] 3] 2) 2) § 12/2) 23! 8] 8] 2] S13] 8

—S eee eee eee eee eee eee ee -

€. ar Ss WT iE,

FEBRUARY APR“

Number Pet Cent

Doubtful] Total

ALL
Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent
ertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain ] Doubtful Total [Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Ooubttul | Total

Evaluation [Certain [Doubthul] Total

O-Bath

‘cone [7

* |-Astronomical 4 4
!2Aucratt ol 2)

i Light Phenom, 9
4-Birds p

RS
a

RT p| 1 oo| 39] 19 a} matt oat
WETS) al stun ql isl a| 23] i¥¢
aR

wy) q

Ree BEBE

5-Clouds, Oust, etc. 0
Ginsuffic, into. d

femaeesat | —2|

&Unknown 2
$Other

of by
ale

B| fbb L bbb

lw
S ass

ls ib
ee [em [& fe

RSEREBRES

4
| 6 rr)
Lolo] ay)
ol 2 | aT oa 3.9)
- 0.1 00] o{ a] oo ool pol y| of 1] 78) gal 1.01
| | [| | [| TT [ TT [ | ~f PE TT Tet ff
[ 3l_ elgz3| aloo. [4] 13 29[s9l4ealioo. [ti] iz]ioeal 884i. bio. |

L Evaluation

0-Batloon

1-Astronomical

i BS
nad

2-Aircraft

3-Light Phenom.

&-Birds

5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

'$-Insuffic. Info,

LE Psychological

Ee

&Unknown

SS IS SP BS |S |S [EO

0
2] 16.8100.

io TS |

SEPrEe

Humber

OErTrobeER

Per Cent

Number Per Cent

Evaluation

0-Balloon

Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful! Totat [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful

1-Astronomical

2-Aircraft

3-Light Phenoe.

'5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

Ginsuttic, into.

&-Unknown

bine

+Other

b

4

Total

97] 6 3 e2}e//) AI\w. 150] 42| 92)549/456 [oF 38) 291 6715¢.9143.3)00. Ji | 25 62./|37-9 |100.

TABLE ALE EVALYATIONW _ OF. WWIT SIGATLIVNGS BY PION Tt LF VEAL LI¢ 7
WANA Lz FERBRURR 7A e46s Alegre.
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttui] Total [Certain] Ooubttul] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total FCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtfuf Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total

0-Balloon

1-Astronomica! { |
2-Aircratt

va
'3-Light Phenom. | x}
Bis 4 re eee AS
| ft iS

5-Clouds, Oust, etc. N
y

$ Insuffic, info.

is , Ni
[Psychological - AY SN

8-Unknown
(Total C L

Dnt To
Py Lo [o0) Oly
3 , fi .

in | Doubtful Total [Certain

w

= eS
Dla la]iyfo

goldot 1 [oO | ¢ [33.

g
0
Q
é

es a
Sis
P Oo] } a

| lf
PEERS eh si
seer ee lssl2

LS? [S [o> ey kes
djs la ~

117

SoD

| Evalsahon Certan
O-Bailoon al 0
*LAstionomical 8 3
2-Aucratt ¢?
Light Phenom. a ¢g
4-Birds n g
S-Clouds, Dust, ete.] Gd
& Insuffic. info. fl 0
7-Psychological 0 ¢
&Uranown

S-Othes

Number Per Cent Number

i Evaluation Geran {Doubt Ooubttyl! Total [Certain] Doubtful} Total
{0-Baltoon ' d| EI ILE i
[Astronomical : 42 31 14.3 (é]
‘o.nincraft g } 6.0 0 ig
(Light Phenom. , OL ga g (a)
Birds 0} 0.0 QO] a
‘SClouds, Dust} CO] 0 O01 0. g| 68
Einsuftic. Info, al o! a | 0.8 179.6 O| @
, LP sychological do F 0d. 0 A 0 e
{9-Other 4 w) 0] /4.3] 14.3 a1
"Total S| 2} UH 28. ¢| 0

Evaluation
0-Balloon
{}-Astronomicat
2-Aircratt
Taught Phenom.
T-Birds
S-Clouds, Dust, etc.
$Insutfic. Info,
7-Psychological
EUnknow
S-Other

‘- Total

120

TRGLE Alo LUALUATION QF lair st@H TIVES 8¢ Matte ME VE AE ip Sf

[_ TAM LEB RUAR SY
fumber Per Cent Number Per Cent Number
| Evaluation Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful} Total FCertain Doubtful Tota! {Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful
O-Baltoon Pa S| 53/58) 7 0 o| 01 OO [0.9 x]
"Astononical i} 2 5a, WEI E8l ol 2 i| $14.7 %.7133.4[ 0 | 0
| aweratt o| 2 10.5 10.5 3 { } 0.9 Ie. [te] t 0
3-Light Phenom. cl ce g.0| 0.0) g| 0 at 49} 0.0 o| 8
4-Birds Cl Co 0010.04 oO 0 a fe) ¢|
5-Clouds, Dust, ete. Al fo) 4.0 |. ¢ Q 0 0 0 a
Ginsuffic. tno. 8 oO 0.0 126.31 0 0 f 4\| 0
T-Psychological Q c 0 oold.ol 9 c g ¢| @
S-Unanown S| a ookes| i] 0 2 gl?
|sother ! fo) 0) 5 q 0 0 cf ¢
Total 4| 514 «43/100-| 4 | S$

| LIA
Number Per Cent Number

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful! Total [Certain] Doubtful
0-Balloon 2{ 9o[ 2 FT 0.0 a
1-Astronomicai d| © OP cel] 9.9 Z
2-Aircraft f ? i 20.0 g o if
3-Light Phenom. alo 0.0 | 00 OL ff
Birds ra) in | GOL 2b y 44 G
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. C fa} &s I een 0
G-Insuftic. Info. Cl o GON 0.2 | (]
7-Psychotogical alc¢é v3) 2.0 0
Unknow il_@ sod 00 Q
S-Other o| ¢@ CL O08
1 Total 4 il

Numbes
Certain | Doubtful

Evaluation
(0-Balioon
1-Astronomical

2-Aircraft
'3-Light Phenom,
4 Birds
S-Clouds, Dust, etc.
{&lnsuffic. Into.
7-Psychological
&-Unknown
9-Other

} jO!s\o sielolsek|s

Total

121

TARLE 417 EvVALwation GZ LWir

P WZANMUAL LER ROARE LTA EM APE.
Rumber Pes-Cent Aumber Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evatuation Certain | Ooubttul? Total [Certain | Doubtful; Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain ] Doubtful] Tota [Certain | Doubtful! Total JCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful) Total | Certain |Doubttul | Total
[Gaon iol 6.7] bof 2.7 2 5.6] g.0| Sd {| Alas Z 6 [3.3] 3-3] 6]
«Astronomical 4 £126.91 26-7153.4 / 92.1 5.6) 27.8) Z Q it _2| 15 16.5] 0-8 4-5
[z-aucrat al_¢| a) 0.0| ¢.010. 0 Zz gt vilaal 3 7-71 22.0
ad ol aol celpel Ap A o-b| oo of a 0.01 1.)
= ol alool oleae] ap 0-0 4 im
o| ol 0] adlos 2 00100) ol 7 0) od
blac} 09) 00 p 9.0 | p g. Ot?
z| 2 13.3, 0.01133) ol 2] ooo! opt al 2 | @.4[ 1.1]
2|_ 2 13.3) 0.9] 13. 2 | 9.0 |778 2 Q. | 35-3
° 13.3| 0.01/33) 2] oO AE vA 0. g| 4-2
LAA AL tS TIS_26.7} 100. i 6.710.) 7 O\. 2.11/00
LIA SEM E _ Av gusy
Number Per Cent Numbers Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Certain | Ooubtfull Total [Certain | Doubtful! Total fCertain| Doubtful] Totai fCestain| Ooubtful| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful} Total FCertain| Doubtful Tota! | Certain { Doubtful | Totat
h 4/51 /2. ae 2 61 271/30) 3.7/4.4 sd 27 BE) 37] 75 | 10.3} MAIS
4\__ 2) 161159] 2-3] 2 41 | 14.9 10.6) 25.51 9 9 | ag
12 7Hae 135.4, 274 24 36 [ig-/ 4 736) #77.
2 2 73 ool oo] of a7
| | tle Jl ool72t al 2
fel Ol SFiS 0,0) 6.i4/23| Of
/| 81 ¢0 Os\ 77) 4

IELTEM LER wv
Number Number
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubttul] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful! Total }Cestain| Doubtful] Tota! [Certain

0-Balloon (54 9- Z|
3
Zz
2
p

100.0351 4/9] saul £491 35.21 790.1 28

122

2g, Z Ss GE _ VE VIP es

ee a
ee

Per Cent

Evaluation Ooubtfull Total Certain
'0-Batloon
-Astronomical
2-Aircratt
3-Light Phenom.
+-Binds
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
$-Insuffic. Info.
1-Psychotogical
& Unknown
{S-Other
| Total
SEPZ, a Cer.
Number Pet Cent Number
Evaluation Certain Doubtful Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total
0-Battoon ol zl [3c] 7.2] 108 al /2| 20
I-Astionomical /61_¢| a7\10.8| 5-4] /¢2] osl ye | 32
2-Aircratt /3| 27| 40 | 76.3124) Go| | 20
3-Light Phenow. ‘| 21.2 fay 8t /| 2] 7
+Bisds /| 2| 37 42478] 2| 2
5-Clouds, Oust, ete. I | fi eo ogloe| gi ft
G-insutfic. tato. OLLI NU-4| Gal 4h 0
1- Psychological 24 91/8) 20] (8) “| O
B-Unknown OL4#212531 Qp| 253) 7a 0
Other Z| /7{4¢8| 4216.0] 2
L_Total wart SS 1/664 E69) 33.1} 100.4 7K

123

TABLE ALY EVALUATIOW OF OQRJECT SIGHTIWGS BY HOUT OF YE Ae

!  Eyaluston Doubtful] Total | Certain
|oBalloon
" [Astronomical
|z-avceratt
Light Phenom.
A-Birds
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
Ginsuffic, Into.
7-Psychological
8-Unknown
SOther
Total
: Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
1__ Evaluation Doubtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubthi] Total Fertain | Doubtfull Total [Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain] Doubtful! Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
[-battoon [ ‘[77| 09[ 77) cl Of else 2 0| ans po; oo) 90
}Astonamical i | 9.0] 7.717. 3] S| Sol 75s] f] Fl 2 tye] alaes
hemineratt iN ; ZF 4l 0.0/8. 2 50i gs of @ OO; of O06 001 0,
‘3-Light Phenom. AI Ol ect 0.9] 0.0 112.5] g01 4.5 Ho ol]. odl gol oo
Binds i | C1001 0.0) 20 0 : Va) gts ea
'5-Clouds, Dust, etc. Ol Gol 0d oo 0 2 0} pol 0A 40
letosuffie. ino 3 34273) Ap (ail 4 ima 2 Q.0| Arg
(T-Psychotagical {| el 7] 7-7) eel 77 2 g 0 | gol bd| ol
E-Unknown ti 1 4l ol 4 [309 2olwe g o| ¢| p| ¢[éo0l pogeol
fone a / Ki fii etd of 2a oofasof of of of ool oat po
"Total /2{ 4 [73 [923] 7-7[ 700-§ 33 | 40 1825] (7.51/00. 9 1 |/0 | 90) 10.0 ytd.
[ IEP. ee Cecre pee Nev kM BER LORE EI LE
Number Pet Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation [Certain | Doubttul] Total [Certain] Ooubttul] Total [Certain Doubttul] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthul] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
Ir Baten Ol 9 . . 0] 9.9) Oa] pol O| P| OC} Oo Oo 1c oO} O| 80) 90) 0.0
}-Astronomical 0 ! 1] 24333) 323166.4 0) 2) /0s| 9.0 /eog
0 fi Ol ) | 32.3] 29) 3331 0 O|.O| e9| 44 0.0
Q o| ¢| 2) gol 20| oq 2 o| O| 60, aa oo
0 21 pl ad ool ao] o} 9} el pal aa ao
[Ginsutic ito ZA . 210 +2 201 ad p 2 90) 20) go
7-Psychological L . Ol @| Ol pel Boel 2 o| | ol | 20\ 22
SR eer Cee
9-Othes oO 4 2 a 20 26 Jol 2o\| 00 2
| || ee ee eee
Tota a 4A ZY 6 Jee] 333] 7oof 21 7 | 3 Yee7] Sadjveoy 2) 0 | zh sero] olive.

124

5) Sas Ye] Sa) SD SESE ES “Tos
=i Ss bel q iy By Ol he X =
aE SEEERREESEEME SPEGRERES

if 3 A qs ~~
mel
Nj i Ej , Se
MEER BS EEKECEMRUIE : JERE Bh en
NIRS N
Yo gicda ai 4 ~ A] oy IR
a X = to LN
HSS ECEGEGHEIENS . WURAGAGGEGEG
pean ais Sines ass URGRERRERERES
N - SE KIER : ola) eye >
: 2 UREERREBGERES aRSEEREREEES
= - ( SESS ES tal —) 2
Ae J INSSEER IVI [S Sisk NS
$3 = =z RS S ~ 4 's |
y “Te als alr SS ty as na
ssiSS UBSSEREEGERES RR (SEESRECEEEES
Hs c :
Ne
d Is d
| Sess sss pease ‘ rae SERS
sig ; ii"
Lg || ~ NI Q ~jo
S LESS ESS Pear ‘GAGS EEEECERS
! al Oa) 9 \ Qf
B}~s SEEERERKER SEREREE
gzl sera as aaa [s ; ; a
Q ga) Ss) VI aSNs N N
Us x
re alo Vtaawyg 5 x
Qa
, eis No
‘SANGRE iS
as ;
is

ertain
0

J 3047.0] 3

| oof 90 ao

tal {Certain | Doubtful| Total

Number
Certain [Doubttul) Tol
Z
ra
9
6

#70 [60.0 wool/oo.

Certain | Doubtful Total Certain | Ooubtful] Totai FCertain| Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful A

Evaluation

5-Clouds, Dust, ete.
GInsuffic. info.

'3-Light Phenom.
S-Clouds, Dust, etc.
‘$ insuffic, info.
iS-Clouds, Dust, etc.

|4-Birds

2aneratt

i Evaluation
0-Balloon
2-Aircraft
3-Light Phenom,
7-Psychological
&-Unknown

Astronomical
17-Psychological

‘Ginsuttic, Info.

Totat

Z/ JEC SIGHTINGS BY LOW OF EA, LPLD

Af LEZ JE. LEA

Certain

aw 00| 62

4A BLU AL “TAR LP
Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Doubtful’ Total [Certain | Doubtful[ Total Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful { Total Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain |Doubttul { Total

ertain

62) 2

5 lzsol casa ol
ool oa

2
L

 € [72] 34-4] 5¢el_ 4] 71 73 AGG.
QO

LA 2b
2. D
DD) 2b 2

o| of aa

0
scious, bose] Zi ol ot gal sal ao] ol al ol 0 ao, 0.0| 9.0]
Ginsuffic. info. ot ol O| 9.0 gol oof } ab ae BL CLL AS 3 gais3
7-Psychological 0 O} o| 0.0) ofl 0.0 a oe | “3 A | O| oO| og Ay
8- Unknown O| 2 1/8.5| Op! /2- n Q2 QO D0 pol 7 2) (15:3) gol $3
Sot | _olt Leal ool @2 Oli tel ool et ol of of bol 9-0] 0.2
Tota al 7 Ve [sea 43g soo] 7] 4 Lit [oso] se for. /ol 7 [77 [526] 92 sho,
LL
Number
Evaluation Certain | Doubthul] Total
0- Balloon 4| O01 F |/38| 2.0] 38 / /
| 317 [aglraslanl (| 712 | 0
-Ligt Peon. 910} 0 06] polos ot ol a tool os] ool ol
¢-Birds ol ol 0 pol _9.0| 0.8 | ol CL eo 00| dao /
ee @0| oloe| ol ol al aq aol ol _o| o
g| s za] ggli7a 24 gol 47 3[ 0
7-Psychological 4 4 An, Ol 1} 8b. 2.0. 83} 6
8 Unknown 0 a L074 fl oO 8.3, Dp| 8.3 O
pe tele Ol 00] 0-4 9.0 gl bey 0
24| £ _ 17.4) ol 8 | 4 [af ee.7| 33.3700. | 7 | eS [%7] 53.3] 700.7 | 1926 | eo] 724/00.

Var

Number

Nor IE ee
Number

(Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Certain] Doubtful Total
41 8 3] 33.3

0.0\ oof 7}

S| S/S] SO ls io js [Ss
; S/O S| Phos
BASSSSeaess 2

E| obs h lola sb

4

TORLE B22 EVALUAT G22 EVALUATION CF OCAIECT VGATIMGS 8 SION IT OCF  VYERC 5 LIS O
—___ Ai tle SLUAL L TALL, : Apri
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain [Doubttul Total [Certain | Doubtful, Total (Certain Doubtful | Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [ Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Ooutthul] Total [Certain [Doubttul | Total
Balloon oi ol e| eel gal oe] 2 [ot 3 154 gol 154 79) 3-6(95] 7| 2 TAL O6|71
vastoonicol [cl] 3] 9 1385| 27-/[e/ ce] 2 (SA I3198.5 (43) 00/143) /| 9 7/4 0017-1
Danes at_@| ala e-as4| alo z 15.4| 9,0| 15.4 Pr) 43] £OV%3
Light Phenon. DI O| aol pol ed ol el pl gel ae ol aol ool gol ol 0; Ol op L-22| 0
[e-Bits o| ad aol ad ol ol of aa go | | ofl ool 9. 8 @ 0.0
SClouds, Dust ete. 7 Ll Clo col gol OF Ol 6| ZO 2a 2] 0.0| go
G Insuftic, into, g\_/\ 7-21 gol 7. f 0\ 1) 727) 2 31 oO . 20 2 ¥
7-Psychological o| Of 04 0.0 0.0 agit 2 oe) A100 oo , d YO . eg
FUninow i| al i oo 1-7 0 7.7|_00| 7 zw ‘ a: Ore eral aol
some 1 1] ol 17-71 0.0 271 al cl 2 | 441 aol E+ zc] 3.2] ol a @-t\ ao] 0.0
Total io| 3 Lo bag 251 fog. /9| 3 [234769 237) [22] 6 | 2g] 7ee] w4| WO] S¥] Ol se| org 0.0 Vad.
IN Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Pes Cent
Evaluation Certain Doubt Tota Certain] Ooubtfull Total {Certain| Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total in | Doubtful] Total = Doubtful] Total | Certai
0-Baltoon if Ot! 743 0.0 /43) 4¥| ¢ 4 Pare t 04) 67) 2
[rastonca | / | | /43\ 284) 0 © 20 0.0 we Ga 0016-7) 7
2-Aircratt o| ¢ . 15 ri 5 (267 6 7133.4
|S-Light Phenom. ” O| 0 | ee] pviog| oo
Birds ol ¢@ 0 | of} 8°] gal Gp Q
[-Cluts, Oust, ete, o| 2 Gi ) 6.0| g¢ | 0.0
Ginsuffic. Info. 2 Q ZL 126-71
T-Psychological ol oc Q10 10.4 90| 6.9
8-Unknown { a og Va 26.7|_ 2o\ 6.
8-Other Ata 0| 0 - 0.0| 0.0
1 Total S[ 2 (51 93.3] 6.7| 700] /5
»y a LIEGE A Ger. OL LLP LEE SLVIG EL
Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttull Total [Certain] Doubtful Total Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain| Doubtful! Total | Certain } Doubtful | Tote!
Balloon 00\09) 7| ol 7 [fol o.a|/oo 4A _2| 3 | sel rela,
[Astor 5 | 3P5| 0.0 138-5 2 | fa.o| 10.0 | 20.8 00 4 64235) HP 35.
2-hircratt . f 0 L | oo} spd | 12.0 1 /6-7\ 334 /| 2 | tl FI) O01 Ss
Light Phenom, 9-01 og} 9 | 0 | oo] Oo] a0 a 0.0) p| o| °lo0| aol od
= aaa sot -Aol ga} ot ot Al col ao
5-Clouds, Dust, ete, 2o| 0.01 0-01 2 | 00] 0.0 0 O| O| AO] 20) 20
sneutic.me f  3| 21 3 [az] aol 227) Le} 2h 00 feted 0 22 3 | 119 aol sgl
reoemcriet | 0] of O| ¢0| ol ool ol ol ploo alo t 0 22 é ol vl of ¢ [39] aol S|
‘Unknown 37 203 24 et él_el 6b leoo aes 4\_ 0 Lay p| 21H el adys
S-Other 0 ope 0.01 OO) of 91 Ol o.e Ae bol y A 8.31 #3 l Q J. 57
Total 43 | 0} 73 fAeol 0a]. 2| 70} oe _ el /d| 2 | 42 4O7|/0O4 17) 0.6 Hl /d0.
127

'§-Ctouds, Dust, etc.

Ginsuttic. tnfo.

O0

1-Psychological

J
0
Q
2
0

EE , WA
ALC poe ALK,
Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Evaluation Doubtful | Total [Certain | Ooubthul] Total [Certain | Doubttul] Total [Certain | Ooubtiul] Total [Certain | Doubthul pa Certain [Doubtful

[o-Batacn “al /| 20 Z wieaa | 40| 20
| Astroaonicat O| 27.3) 22. t
2Acrcratt 33.333 Q FAVA r iil 33.3
3-Light Phenom. 0.0 g a0:
4-Bitds rir Lb Me b0 ae 4 4
GE
Bol

$-Unknown

SID Ip [s [SAIS I
Rata

$Other

at fe

ad be
oon, e 0.0 2d S00 2
0.0| 22 GO| 20\ 00

55.6100.

~ a hs fs Ss | Fy
SESSSSISS ISS

ALE

VY AWLIE

1 Evaluation

Certain | Doubtful

0-Balloon

1-Astronomical

0

Dai cratt

{3-Light Phenom.

'4-Birds
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

Finsutfic. Info,

7-Psychological
e

'8-Unknown

9-Other

G0

Total

4 [780

Ee

2-Aircraft

3-Light Phenom.

4-Birds

S-Clouds, Oust, etc.

GInsuffic. info.

! 1-Psychological

[B-Uninom

-Other

BLE. (7) 2, w SZ az, ld Zz. SZ

—_ LELAUARS
r Per Cent Number
Evaluation Doubtful: Total Certain | Doubtful | Total {Certain | Doubtful

Te Battoon . 00 7.7 O}-
"Pastroromcal A) PRN 4g. ag 1
| aekweratt ¢.0| 0.0 0.0
FLight Phenom. Ctl 2. a b Q
(4-Burds 20! g
$-Clouds, Dust, etc. £0 2.0 ; oO
[éInsutfic. info. a 2.0| Ob a
7-Psychological 4 LIS 0

5 | 0.0) 154 2

Number

Number Per Cent Per Cent

Evaluation Certain | Doubitul] Total [Certain] Doubtful! Tota! [Certain] Ooubtful] Total |Certain] Ooubttul
0-Batloon “| 31/4439] 38/47] 20) . .
[|-Astronomicat 4 21 /¢ /7.7 25 202 atl £3 : &.
l-knca if| ? ier 5912-71 26.6124 | // : 4
hupimenn | 3| 0 3.8] 0.0 2| elt 0.0
“Buds ato 26) 0.01 ¢. “0
‘s-Clouds, Oustetel 2] 7} Z 1 2.5[ gal 7. CO, 0 . d
‘Ginsuthe. Info, é g & L- I L20\ 76 pal Z
{Psychological fol el] Zoi ool Zol 4) O| 442. ,
“8-Unknown /O) Ol felre-7| Za 27 2 : 2.
ve A 76 7.31 8. ral | i 0.
Total 63] S612 7\7F7| 20.3\e00, V//8| 30 |/

S54 CLL LE LE a OF Vo -
Number Per Cent Number Number
Evaluation Ooubtful| Total [Certain Doubtful] Tota! {Certain} Doubtful) Total Certain | Doubtful] Total }Certain

-Baitoon 41/01 (413.2) 6/3 7\|42 : :
{L-Astonomica Z iF G1] ge 73. [A 4 : /6 .
2-Aircratt G1 27| 3¢| 7.3 i 291 3| 9 é 16.
j3-Light Phenom, (| 2 | 3) 08) -olaet of 2 3
SClouds, Ovstet.} =O! | 0.0| 0-B\ 0.9 qd] 2 :
Insuttic, Info. ul 2 99 2 B71 4 Q . “| 4 el |
LP sychological ft] o 1/08! golo8t | 6 : . War?)
FUniaom af | Z| siles. of Zp [ar.0 0 15130.
S-Othe 6] ¢| 7[4sf ogleef al 2

SG |/29| 59.7| 49.3] /00.130| 34 16/ 3Y| 16 |F9

129

S/ENTINE

Number Pes Cent

Cai fooun Total [Certain | Doubtful

Iz Avera

OL Loug of
Per Cent Number Per Cent member _Pet Cent
Certain ve ertain al ete Total oe
“4 ¢0| 140] rail a f| (6

Light Phenom,

sad ee

p

S

WIG

TAELE lo Ez ME LIB BLS
x OTF Ue. Fear
Number Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent
|___ Evaluation Certain F Doubtful Total [Cenaio] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttull Total (Certaiay Doubtful Total | Certain [ Doubtful | Total |
0-Batloon 1 a a ¢?\ D0
1-Astronomicat 3 o ‘mb ol £9
P-Aircraft A Z| 01 26| 30
'3-Light Phenom. oO 0 y) / 2. py)
Bins Oo} 0 _0| 2) 20} 2.0
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. Q A] Z| 26| 02
&-Insuttic, info, ¢ 0 o y, mi 0.0
1-Psychological 6 0 _f /
[ato Am viwol ool
$-Other 3|_ 0 AES OO
LE &, £2 S SLEMNTING Sy Le
ClOUPS SILG. :
LACEL LET Goop Lougre ve.
Aumber Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evatuation Certain | Doubtful] Total ]Certain| Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful! Tota! {Certain} Doubtful) Total gCertain | Doubtful] Totat {Certain
0-Balleon 2) WA AT 6| /7| IP
1-Astronomical ly. L. A/S! IHL {
2-Aircraft O0| ¥A g /
bf 4 7 0
sca Dust, ee. EEE 2.0 Lae ol ol | as
-msutfic. nb. A oal afl sy| ol #1 7Ze Pr
LPaycholpcal TLS 00 o| o| 0 0 | 2.
t-ntnow Ae (2041 dolwé\ 6| ol £ at 0) 2.0)
aa 2.0 geee r, o| ¢ 0
=o ae veal st al eal aa
WE 0.6) (PI 10041 $1\_ F2\103| G0S\ 50.500) 7 /0\ 920
LE EVAL LL. 1GATIVGS. ATONE. VAIN Aa
CLOUPS oa
LLEYT. G00L2 Lousy us Fook
Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
a Doubtful ml ertain | Doubifid | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [pertain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthil] Total gCertain | Doubtful Certain [Doubtful | Total
al 2 4 , 7. a\ 3 L641 o wi | talk
o| ¥ £.9 ! iE Nae) ¢1 7) st vel zal 6.01
o 0| 2 sine 0: g Q| 6} 00 zo) gl al ol ool J
Zi 4) 20|_ 2 g} 00 Y|_ 9 iN 20| 2.6120 a4) Al ool 2a ao
wa o At a 0. ARTA 0) | 3d) 22) 2) 20 Of 2a) AVE
[esesattic mio. | 7) 0\| O| 20 él] 8 ‘ O\ 2/\ fe. WF 9 0| Vi b
Padalopcal Le} 2}. 2 24 Z| al ool 2. Aa 4\ od aalool 3] al 3t zcl a] 2c!
Ce , an of o0lfs) 2/| al alles sae 4 g at Li 20s aa leey
some Tt Ol ct yy ool vst ol ol aloo oolool 3 vl ales ool , 26) 0.0\ 30)
a ee ee ee ee ee a ee ee ee ee

TABLE LVALUATION Ye. LL S/GA, S, LINE CLs i aa
GROUPS LEEO
EXCELLENT ? 6002 DOWBTF UL tece
Number Per Cent Aumber Per Cent Number Pes Cent | Percent Cent
| Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubttul] Total [Certain [ Doubtfed | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain } Doubtful] Total [Certain at Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
poe gl ol al nal aol el al al ab cael eo uml et aol al a sabe al
steal ene pial efael ar a
3+Light Phenom. 7) o| @ Pat ae fat a ol ol sal al ool
4-Birds 4A 2 0 Lael et et 2} oo On 0
$-Clouds, Dust, etc. 7] o | o| 2 2l\00\ 00
Ginsuffic. nb, L274 251 0/2 ” L4 Ho} 44 | asa 0.0| 25.3]
7-Psychological 2 o e pao ae | e3| 0.6
= Caos aa Pe a
ober ape aD ate fa Hz} 4} 2t27 ae] 27
Total 729| 27,1400, 1 971) 26 UL strata M0, AL AS| IAT] S32 |100,
BLE (74 EYP. COM e ak SS, GS ZZ LELABPBILLTI
Gkoves LIES
EXCELLENT 6000 DOVE ELL
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Oouwbtul] Total | Certain] Doubtful ertain | Doubifull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Ooubtiuf Total { Certain ] Ooubtful | Total
0-Balloon / 2 / es 20, S55) Ss” / él, ala 2, 2 4
J-Astronomicat 2 | 6.71 ° K 2
2-Aircraft f “a2 2.2 Q é
4-Light Phenom. ol 20| 201 6, o|_o y /| 3
Birds 2 o.c| 0+! ool 0 £ oO} _O| O\ 20
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 0 2.6| 00| 20 yy, 2 7) oO oO
-Insuttic. info. 00\| 201 aot oO 2 g o I 1Ao 5
T-Psychalogical | 20 20 00 a 2 Lj 2
8 Unknown 20.9 0.0| 2£9 Oo oO
sone Asst nol 5, wi 0 2
= us| 3] eeles3| “zie Lay| 71 a [p22] 71 |e Lee | 2
TABLE L. BLL SLOA TWO S SSCATIOSE LEL IAB LIT
GROUPS LIS be
EXCELLENT 200 LOVET FOL [00k
Number Pes Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Per Cent
Evaluation _ [Certain | Doubtfull Total [Certain | Doubttull Total [Certain] Doubtiul] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful
0-Balloon “| 221 ¢é r, TED $2 24 9 6b b3) Et) 60 12/ ras ise
1-Astronomicat g ue £0 7\_ 6.3|20,21 /09
Zl z24

a0 hate gl is}eg! 10
0| oo 201 al 7) slesl o7l eg
a DD O.2 £2. i p g pee.
& a a| 0 2.91 0.0! 2.8
oO OD at 2 Q 2.3 fo] 3.3
bole] fol seg 1a2g 22g |aa| bo | 28.8
71 43) 20) 43 &| 371 39| of
1631 79.5] 215 [100 1571 772 721 27.4 (00

131

LAGLE. VRP EVALUATION QE LET SIGA TIMES #2 SYENTHME ELIBAGTE
GHOULS. 5-4 YEARS :
Erceceewr G002 LavBT Ek ut. lD0k
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
| Evatuation Certain | Doubtful; Total [Certain | Doubtful; Total fCertain | Doubtful | Tota! fCertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total
[Gan SIE 76| ewols las] 47| 25| 22] vel _e7/ zs]
Astronomical Z Ae LINDA £O\2OS\ (848 tiled ts ay) ayia le8 263}
avert , gslizg tilmelusl ¢la/l2z7| 2 g| z7| w| wel zzivzol
Light Phe. o| 2 ad 2 Zi 2ol a2/| Let? | 23).ea ed 2} sl af, Go} of
‘Bits | 2h| ab asl LL A azlasl col zl +| v | ad 22| a2!
S-Couds, Dust ee AVA ail azioz) 2| ol 2] 2ol aol ao!
Ginsuflic. into. 20 9] 0 9 aal“2\es| o lz 4%2| 2olez
2i\a¢7\ wl 4 z7lz3| azilzol zl _z2[ { z2l 2g| 22
2 gs|_ al gl ssl aol s1
AWAPARM W197)
ole lezllae al
Ol g #

lazlaA Bo panes ; 2)
YOR of.

Total £70 \e29l a7s | 20.94 san | 25.21 00
LE SF z S/G S a SLCATING CLIME LLL

N
j

|___ Evaluation [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful
0-Batloon
J-Astronomica!
2-Aircraft

'3-Light Phenom.

+-Birds

Ginsuffic. info,
1-Psychotogical

_ NMA AB KR g
= hy |S QPS BS g,
NS SBP AR AAR A RK |e
& SSS BE !H SRR ALE
S| RA SEHAIN A [2
Ky Ry wa ~ hy |

271s WAV LA 00.
ra F< ra [41 (= ATM ES. SLIEGAITINGE LE LOE
GROUPS (IEE.
Ereeccenr ”__—(G000 Lev rE te VZeN a
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation _ {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtiul] Tota [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthul] Total Certain] Doubttuy Total | Certain | Doubtful | Tota
0-Balloon F126) S06 b / (8\2/ 2) 2) Fi well siigs| GO| Z| gla Staal
FAstonanica Zz | %5.0| Zo0|s%.0| yo FAW? AW 13.5\ oles] 7 26 222} 222
Aircraft 2| 2laad zalwoad 7 | 20\ sal 9 WALZ EAA o|_1|[2sl 2
stint | 21 ol alas! gol ao pol zol<e| al z2| zlaelzzl zl 2l al al zeleolad
Se ee es ele Pa Pian ere eed
SClouds, use. 7) O| PIZOIDOIA Ld af 2tad 2L'\00\ 2 2\|0\l202\ 22\0.0l 2 0: O\2 Z2\ acl
G-insuffic. info, 0| Qi gilgei @e| aot 2 2\| Zz AW) HF Z| gaits Zeb Zz Ol 2 |260| Zo| Zea
7Psychological 2|_ al 2 20) 2b A y Al vl el eleclacivd vl al o| gol eel ao
BUninow g| 2 2D ol # noiim| sl 2 1\ 20 ol sl4s| poles
other 2| el pleal aeleol vl 7| Ales zoel ze ol zl oe z 2 0.6. Ab ve8
Tota WA ¢ | 20 loo! gaol 1e7| 4 esycle7/lool 421 #2 zil¥zalol Zl 2 ¢lyolz<ol ye |
1B LE EVAL ZO, OF SLAM TUES. aY SSIGCMIINC LLB LMT
GEQUPS_, LILI
ELleLeewr boob
Nombes Per Cent Number Per Cent Number ‘amber Pes Cent

Certain [Doubthul] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total re Doubtfut | Total Doubtful] Total | Certain [Doubtful | Total
2|_2| ol2al 2ol20 Z Zélius| vl ol Asz eal eat
23 Zi \2t/| 27a a9 yz |

(2\26.0 Qieoo

i

x
S

S
N

Z O\PO\2o01 /

2 alae Two. {se | 22 {77 |y Vi 2¢¢ loo e717

SS

iS
N
N
NaS
RS
SAPSAAP
ty BS
NS
YS
NaN
BY
iS
ESSE ISSN
aS
na SK
SABAH
SESSSSSSSIN
IN IS KD

SN] RANA
Ss SA

K
2 INS
BS NS
S
hS
S
Ss

S| ARERR AL
ql SSSSSSS9

132

VITO a LF She £ St Alt LECT
CLOVIS. LIEO
[ Exceckenr Goon DOVE Ut LOOR
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number

Evaluation Doubttul Doubtful; Total Doubtful | Total Certain | Goutal Total [Certain |Ooubtful] Total fCertain | Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
‘Sateen Wd 7 “ s ze oo|\sé| | 2\ 4
“LAstranomical / B\ 226 | 353| LB 7.7 ‘A (A
‘DAnecaft 2? 4A AM LYLE z
3Light Phenom, , Q| 2iZe7| AelZel al Gig
A-Birds LL 21 2\20| 22\0091 7) O18
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 00! GO Z| Zi~alealiZal gt @i 2
G-insuffic. nfo. 1 ae Y gly AWA o|
7-Psychological Cl 2. 10] 2 Zp. L22\0031 O| Oo 2
6-Unknown , PF, oL 202 6 2
hoe 7) AAP aVTAD Ae? WA,
Total LN ALLN (5 \ EY vital goles | 9 \37

Lb ££ As
GLOUL Ss __ LfS/

_ Ereecceéwr 7 Coon Lover Fv.
| Number Pet Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
{__ Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain| Doubttul] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total | Certain} Doubtful] Total FCertain | Doubtful] Total |Certain| Doubtful] Totat
-Baloon Li_a2l sl sel aol e¢ z ae ie z| 2 (Z| oAS
Astronomical Zz S17 E129, oY \ 12.
eer pe cireremiee
Light Phenom, g 2! AQA22i po! an 2 L2\ L2L\O 13 Z2/ ib.
Birds 2 Zi Lie Gol 2 Z Q 2 Plo22 2
S-Clouds, Dust, ete] 7 Z\_ 2 bal 20| Gol Z| 2\ 2 Hae a Zhao acta
Ginsuffic. info. WA A] D 0.2| 0.0 0.0 Z\ P| 2 22 AOD c ne
7-Psychological 2 2\i g\igo|00| aol 2 [A Ad ME, 0.0) WAR 44
Unknown é|_ al 6 1763] 2035.3 2 Aas / aes a 20\ F740
S-Other 2| /\s9| gol|sf|_ 0} o | plage oe 0.0 Ar, LF].
{Total 1¢) 2 Pb SEI ZZ NAN 6) A NITY 27 A\ ON 2

LE fe L G Y_ S/S, LM £e (a
LOWE TE Ute /20K
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Evaluation Certain { Doubtfull Total {Certain} Doubtful) Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful) Total FCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful| Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful} Tota
0-Balioon Z. y. 75)
|-Astronomical L104 /2.3| E/ V6
2-Aireratt LEAVE BIN LEY
3-Light Phenom. PILZ LILLY 2
Birds 2 OS Z
SClouds, Dust, ete] 7 F102Z| A Q2| 2
Ginsuffic. into. 4 YN Be t/| 2
LPsychologicd =f 7 A 4 ‘Zz
Ustoown Wd olWy bl Bole yZ| 2
9-Other -2| O.3\| Z%3) 2 fv
Total Y9\ 12.4 22.6 \ 00 WW88\ [Io \63N\49.0\ 91.0 \/00.NZIS | G0

133

TALE ASF EVALUAT/ Onl OF CASECT S/GH 77 NGS g SIGHTING 2A 120T
a CLOUYPS ALL YEDLS.
LACELLENT ? G022 DEUBTEUL F208
Per Cent ‘Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Total [Certain | Doubtful, Total §Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain Doubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful! Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain [Ooubtful
{O-Balloon 2O\ UY £3] MLZ 7 IO) S816 27 . < AVA
“Astronomical $b A eg 6k Fs 9
|2-Aweratt aS rf, /09 47 Poe @ 2. sa
3-Light Phenom. a0 q ti 9 2 OL | AZ |
é-Birds a9 é || EA 2-454 22) 2]
S-Clouds, Oust, etc. 0o| aol 2| 5 f RH L]
Gtnsuffic. Info. et} ALL o , BALM 23 iparaprierier
1Payetologica pol pol 3| 7 | asl ast 20 ‘La ziwl ze asl 23!
unknown oo laza\/ir| 0 | 168 long AE AW? eo laztyebl a0 lis!
S0the ao| szi srl 7) gels 27 a ve) eae anual ae
__Totat Nb, \S#4| AF | 7: SZ eo 49S | 740) 26.0 1/00.
TABLE ¥O TZ LMG SIGHTING L/A Ble
GROUPS GLP
[ EpCEcc Eur GOD LOCBTE AL Look
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation J Certain; Doubtful [ Dov Total Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Tota [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Doubtful] Total Certain] Ooubttuf Total | Certain | Ooubtful | Total
0-Baltoon L OO /| AS g.6| ¥st 3 Hee m
{T-Astrenomical | g Z| gS 1h. F 7 271 0.8 Acad
yeAiterat iis /| 21 ¢ ¥. ‘S| 9p 0 oO Oo Ol oop 60
.3-Light Phenom, a: 0! O| AYS| pole 7 4) og, 0 d1 2.0! 0.0
£ Buds Ol og o| 00) 20| gol oO OL nv? 2 Z| Ol 40 Q1 OD
[SClouds, Ostet] 2 y) ol é6le 2010.01 0 b.6 A g 2) 20 0 ol ya
{6-insutic. tno, Zio | al? OL 7. 7. G Ol 61¥%00l 0.0 EP)
j-Psychotsgcal 2! P) / /\ 2 4S 0. fl o| / Lad O.0 6.7
{8-Unknown SI gt a 7\% : Z g|_ & 0.0|73.3|
9-Oter ao Q a 3 poet
Total 8: 4 100) /§| 0) /F\ i000! 2.0 baa
aa SLEMTIS GS kl ABMLAT:
EXCELLENT
Number
Evaluation —_ | Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain] Doubttul Total
10-Balloon 1 fat
‘1-Astronomical 4 31
2-Aurcraft
Light Phenom. 0
la-Burds
iS-Clouds, Dust, etc. | All
Gtnsuffic. info. o (4
T-Psychological al
i
ats

9-Other
H Total

ENCELLEWT
Number
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful{ Total FCertain | Doubt | Total {Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Balloon

RS AL
PRO

x

Ry
BK SS
mS ie, Ky $5

INORS

LHbLE 2 AF EUALUATIOW 0F  OBIJEET SIGHTINGS BY SICNTIME O£t/ABlL ITY
GROUPS LISO

Number Per Cent

i Evatuation in | Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful: Total ertain | Doubtful | Total Certain [Gout
'0-Batlon St? é (/6.7 3.3
1-Astronomical 4|4 g 3} 13.3
| z-avcecatt JS 0 0.9

7 |o 0.0
4lo | 0.0
alo | 0.0
slo | 0

73 23.7| 100. J2 416 70.0//00.16 0
Baz EVBLYATION fF OB ISECT SIG ATINMG S SIGHTING Ctl tel,

CLOUPS
EXCELLENT 7 Lower Ful La2k
Number Per Cent Number Number Per Cent

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain) Doubtful Total [Certain | Ooubtful Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Batloon ma 1 17.7} 0.0 i 774 | 1 0 | 0.0) 2.9
= 712 541 75.4) Joel /0| Y 5 14 7\22.
2-Aircratt 3 [a 4 [237] 7-7 j0et € | @ 4 5.9 117.7
sLigtPrnom, | 9 | oO | O | 00] 0.0] gol o| ¢ 0.9
-Birds otgfool!d.olool @ te sj 0.01 0.0
5-Clouds, Dust, ete. Lo Q}o.o] 9, ooo] glo 0, g.0\ 9.0
Cinsuffic. into. o|° | oj oo] 0.°loot 0 | a 0 0.01/76
reserved | 0 | 0 | O | 9.0) 0.0| oo} 0 lo +5 0.0
8-Unknown 4 | Oo 14 |300) 0.01 30.8 (2) 0 0.0
s-Other 0 lo [Oloo ol o.of alo 0 0.0174
Total 10 | 3 |/3 | 769 13.170. 26 1¢ F 54 (794 20.6] 100

Woe +s _ FYRLYATIOW CONTAC < “ae
GROUPS -
| EXCELLENT
Number Per Cent

Evaluation Certain | Doubttull Total [Certain Doubtful
'0-Bailoon 10 7 |/7
1-Astronomical / Y b
2-Aucratt 16 43 / é
|3-Light Phenom. 2 oO 4)
+ Birds 0 Q [ /
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.] 0 °. Q
&-Insuffic. info. 3 Oo 42.5 55|0
1-Psychological (4) | (4) 2
&-Unknown ¥210 4]
9-Other 7 |oa : 7

Total FElaé | 100 \167| 66 [23

135

GLE AVE EVYALYATION OF bE SIGATWVGS LGR. {a2 ee, BY Ss [Aj
. RELIABILITY  GhOUPS SULLTARY PEASE RU ERS
i LYELL ENT @2002 Lawaert we
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
1 __ Evaluation Certain Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthul] Total (Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Ooudtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful
“O-Batloon wl ¢laled zl as pid et $5\ 2blul wl 23 | 6/|MY_“Zs
rastowomeal | ze] y¢ | v7 LL £3| 57 Lateral g2| v2 re lad 8
PAveratt Z Z| vol72| £4 (Z| 95° | oF APE A Si FA 4A
3-Light Phenom, 2\| Zi 22| 2a aol ¢| 2 S| 42) ads ‘| 21 #|Z9| 2 5
rane 2 aol 22\ 40 zl ¢lae 2dz2l sl ol sl cd aol 4
5-Clouds, Dust, ete. 20\ A A ? 22} 24} atc ae as
Ginsuftic. info. 16| DOLE 2\4)\ 24 ae rae Per.
22 ZA 2| 2| Zia Laz LaA_2\  aa\_23|
eumom | 772 20 [Z<s\202| 2a| za! ol go\z¢7 ao
[som | | lav led eolzel wl sl szl cd pole¢| zl zi eld 2
Totat 2! 42 |wABY Leva SILLS 6 |STY\ FES) 26.6|\ 100 1270|_ 95 | REN EO! 26.4 100.
LE EVAL Ww Zz Sh Mw La. YEALS SYCMTIME
REGIA BLLITY GROUPS. 5

EXCELLELT Goon

Number

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtfull Total [Certain | Doubtful
0-Baltoon =f s i
1-Astronomical LZ LL
2-Aircraft //|
3-Light Phenom. Z|-.2
{Birds 2
Clouds, Oust, etc. LL
‘6-Insuftic. Info. og
j2-Psychotogical 7]
&- Unknown ZA
S-Other 2
1 Total 1 22 | 1o/\ 766 | 21. 222 1976 |/80 \SEL\O7E

€ ZVREL C2, Zk S/IGATINGS LR. LILES, S57. TLM
RELIABILITY CGLOUPS _, MILITARY CBSERWERS
EXMELLEWT GO22
Numbes Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain} Doubtful] Total fCertain| Doubtful} Total Certain] Doubtiul} Total [Certain Doubttul] Total
0-Baltoon A 1A W/AA LA A AA CAC
[Astronomical Z| 2 Zlzz| Zo A gl fies Bel gr) 2
2-micrat A 4| 2lv/_zelead_ zl _al eleel aelao| 2
3-Light Phenom. Ql @| Zi Zel| Go| 7 Qi f LO\F A)
a-Birds 2\_0\ al gl agl2el cl 2 Q\2ZALaA A
|S-Clouds, Dust, etc] 7 gd Z22\ 20\ 20 Z| 2 o 22 QL ND g
cna | al 2] al acl eclac|_z|_al /le/ieel at 2 WAP
|7-Psychological 2| 21 gla Zelaz\ 2 ?2| eizagZiad a 2
nkzow Z| o| sl esl aolzz| 5| 2| sles agi¢s| /| a
00h A al “zl aeled 3] al sles 20.08 a| AWAVYA

Total gl vl sigsizclw@ iw! Z| \wod adlw|\ z2\ z 2 tote led

LE ¥: EVAL Le QE LL S/GATLWGS FLL E% BY __ SUCK TINE
KELIBBILITY GROUPS ; CNVILIAW OBSERVERS
EXCELLENT. Go02 Dow
Per Cent Number Per Cent Number

Evaluation Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthul] Total §Certain | Doubtful Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total Fertain | Doubtful! Total [Certain
[Balloon 0| Z| P1040 aolgal + Z
|1-Astronomical 00! 20 2 A
ZAucratt | 2a ANAL, /

3 Light Phenom. Z2| Z22| 20\ 2 2
4-Bisds Z0| 2O| GA D 2
5Clouds, Oust, ete. ZO\0202\Q0\ 2| 2
li|_22\ tog 2
Zo\e0\oo, gl 7
300| 20\ 209 0
wo Go|maA f\_ op

136

SARLE ASO LWALU ATION OF Att SI@MTIMWGS Fie S98. BY SIEN zie
RELIABILITY CGLOU PS MILITARY OBSERVERS

Evalushon
“D-Balloon
"PAstronomical
2Aucraft
‘Liat Phenom.

Certain | Doubtful; Total (Certain Doubtful, Total (Certain | Doubtful] Total [Cestain | Doubtful Total fCertain | Doubttul| Total [Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtfut

am

1

B [SS DIRK

TOELE Sf VYELYATIONW Val Le LUGS. LOL 19L2Z BY S/S CMT7UNG_
RELIABILITY CIAL AW QESERVERS

‘Baloo
1-Astronomicat
Ep-aincratt
HLight Phenom.
1& Birds
i§-Clouds, Dust, ete.
jCinsutfic. Info.
| 7-Psychological
1B Unknown
$-Other

Evaluation

SAAR BAH Is

Total

NSS

EVALVYATIOM GE fle SIGATINGS Z
MECIA BILITY GEOUPS ; PULITALY ORSERVERS

L _ 20D LOUETE Ut.
Number Per Cent
Evaluation rea Certanl Doubtiul/ Total [Certain Total | Certain
0-Balloon Zz I\SO)| 25\ 75) ¢ oO f
|-Astronomical Z| 24 26\5.0| 45.0 E74
2-Aircraft ‘A 4 Ze. &
3-Light Phenom, 2 og 2o| 2. oO
+Birds g 22 rz)
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 2 g , Zi
jGinsutfe. bo, A OD #
| EPsychological | 2 22\ 0.0 2
[8:Unknown zZ e| GOOLE gy
S-Other ?\| 2 20\ 0. Zz
= | 80 | Go\o ks 54. 9| Ys. yop
TRBLE ASF EVYALYATION Gate SIGHTING LA a. S/CNTINV GS.
RELIAGILITS GLOYPS | COWILAANM OBSERVERS
ELlELeEngs
Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubttul Doubtful ertain | Doubiful Total [Certain] Doubtful Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful| Total [Certain [Doubtful | Total
O-Balloon J 4 4 26|\45
{]-Astrunomical ZL 2 , 5h
2-Arrceatt zo Ss , & VEEL
FLight Phenom, VA 2 2\ 22 2.2) 0.0
4-Birds Z| 2 r3| OL |S.
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. a vA G.2\0.0
Ginsuffic. info. z a Adlaie VI4ZZ7 ZO 47
7-Psychotogical 2 q |4 2\ 2 D901 7 | DIF [S61 BO 7
8- Unknown JI : d . 2 9.2\ 10.0 2 Lf /\ AO
_Total 12. 2\27 8\wo 1/8 | lo 95.0\00 | ¥2| 72 lsvl7786|22.2| 0.

re ee ee ee ee ee ee ee
iy
iN

LGbLE ABS EVALUATION JF abL) SIGHTINGS FOL LIED BY SICH TIA
_FELIA BILITY GROYPS , VANLITARY OBSERVERS

ENLELL EAT

Number Per Cent Number
. Evaluation Certain [Doubtut, Total {Certain | Doubtful Tota Total {Certain | Doubtful | Total un | oubtful
D-Balloon 3 g
“kAstmnomical J 7)
2 Aucratt “al
SLight Phenom. A,
4-Birds P|
'5-Clouds, Oust, ete. 2 { A

GInsuffic. nfo.
7-Psychological

138

&Unknown |
SOther
Total Z29| 92 |
Ge E ra EVAL OW LL SY LW §. ‘Ds S/CNTING
MELIAGILITY 6LOUPS, CIVIL IAW PBSERVERS
EvlEe2 Eur 6000 Dove Eu kl £208
Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent
1 Evaluation Certain ; Doubtfull Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful| Total [Certain Doubtful! Total FCertain | Doubtful) Total [Certain | Doubtful) Total ane Doubthuf Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
[0-Balloon AL 2 2o| 9 2. 214/41 ga ei AwzaV, AWAVAIWALZ
Astronomical ‘|? (2é\2251 | 2| 21wsl ca dA sl £1 | 2 eles e7lZg
p-nirratt f\_/ 1294 & 5 ITF ailad a el wld adad
{3:Light Phenom. 2\_ 21 2 ZA 2. op elamaz 4 LL 2 Z\ o 0.0\| GO0\A2
Bids 22 4 0\ aa 2). 2\_2\ acl aa\ Z tlaclaclead ol al @l eel gelae
S-Clouds, Dust etc] 7 2o\| p0\ 22 Aol aziz eo\2 2 eyes QO 2 2 22\04
i T-Psychotogical VL GO\001 0| e@| ale 22 pole z 214) Zoi Aels. :
Unknown _2\ Boig25{ P| 4 2 calel 2 7 ae PAWAVAIW PA 2
9-Other al al 2a ol|@o| /|_ 5] e, g / Zi47 AMAIA i
t
‘Total | ~iiz 23.5:00|\ 26 Z| 29 \F26|/AL Voa 62\ 148178 \G ae 5E| 2 ESI KS £9 Op.
VABLE AX be EVALYVATIONW GF ALL SIGHTINGS FO £2. a SAGA THN ES
_ RELIABILITY GROUPS, MILITARY OBSERVE 3H
ExCELLEWr €oQ020 LOVE TE UL. F208
Number Pes Cent Number Pes Cent 1 Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
1 Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttul Total [ Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Balloon iol /|Z/ 20 Z ‘| sle/| gZl aA + 2 (Z rar? /|_s| Zz f\
1-Astronomical /\ /| 21% La) # LAK L| £7 ? Z = Zz ‘| #4 Z
P-avcrat Z| al ely. 20 i, Ol V\zd aad 7 2|_ 7 f\
,3-Light Phenom. Ql @| eletipe2 Z| O| Q\LZa\ GO| ap\ a / 2
5-Clouds, Oust, etc. Q| Zio Lievie@o\| 0| pi plgo\ Zelao| al 2
GInsuffic. Info. a J AIQ2| 0.7100 a 2 210.2 LO\E TA,
7-Psychological G| @| plea Bleeo| a| Ol gia ee Qpt 0
&-Unknown Z| 2| 744 2al7n2z| oa £ ie Q
[sone ‘| byl rj acliete | 2 20 20 Q
| Tota AWE IGZAV fas fe o.\ /? | |
BLE 5 EVALUSTIONW
RELSAABLLITY. ZeOUeS Cue (AW OBSERVERS
ErCEteewr Ge
Number Per Cent Numbes Per Cent
Evatuation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtfut] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total Ooubtful | Total
Oat Z| Qleciaelao\ 4| al Ase! ao
1-Astronomical /| J spo O\750 f 7
‘| “\ gals alZsol 2| ol 2 mv 2 i
Z| lad az_zal_z2l el vleol vel ool 2
| glad 2aacl 2l zl etal gal aol AW 20 220]
AWAVATY. Z|_2| aleal acl aol AW, 20 22|
2 [ Olgoigoi\aeol 0| @\ plae 42) 60] O| £ 7)
Z O0| 0D| 00) 0 0\| olao Ae ob. LI eGl\Ze\ae2
AMICeMnwT Fi tb oe ls AW 221 al
2 Zelael 2| 21 eleoelegol aol 2 TAWTAV |

TABLE Ab £1 ZL ~4 ZL. S ZL
CEL OLS. LEFPORTED
[" Tora Ware of Gow ing Wore Meraise. CoLoR Nor ITEP
f- Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Number Pes Cent
Evaluation Certain] Doubttuly Total {Cestain | Doubtful, Total (Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain] Doubttul| Total [Certain |Doubttul| Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Ooubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthul | Total

SE ps

> S Sy
SeA HEHE HA

ea sl as 1a\ 37) 3a 25157) 1.
“-Astronogical ry 4ti 8] 59]
(3 Loght Phenom, S Pini
Clout, ust, ee Loi] 41 al 4!
Ginsutfic. nfo. We 7s] Ol 78
1 Psychologica | 3] | $1
nao ol 29 13|_ | 113| 3.5)
Other [a3] 431 4a /.3)
wz a Tialaal 08 SLE

~ S BD A
h = he [24

Pes Cent

Evaluation Doubtfut}
0-Balloon 0.0
|]-Astronomical 3./
ta-nincraft 2.
3-Light Phenom. 0.0
‘Birds a0
S-Clouds, Dust, etc. 0.0)
[Sinsutfic, info. ao
{T-Psychological DY)
"Unknown oo
$-Other 00

Total 34

1 Number Per Cent Number
Evaluation Ceitain [Doubt] Total {Certain | Doubttul] Total aa Doubtful
0-Balloon 9127] 04 4.3) b: !

Hl 1-Astronomicat a s

i2-Aircraft 3
Lue Phenom. fi

Birds Q

I clouds, Dust, etc. r4)
[Stnsuttic, inh. Q
{Psychological 2
&-Unknown /

19-Other (4

Total 6 7.
Viewer on Gueowmg Vorer | Geowing Lear
Number Per Cent umber Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certan [Doubt] Total [Certain | Doubtful; Total [Certain Doubt | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful} Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Tota! [Certain | Doubtful [ Tota

10-Balloon fa O| Mi Al 00) 4.

| Astronomical UI Al a. 1

2-Ancratt 3 i ! 0.004

+Loght Phenom. oO iil 2.11.1]

4-Burds r) O| 0 6.0) 8)

5-Clouds, Dust, etc. o ‘oO ) D.0| AO

Ginsuttic. info. (a) oO 0 04) 8-0

FPmeopal | O o| 9 0.0| 0.0

6-Unknown D q 0.D| 2D

9-Other ‘44 a 0.0 0.0

__Tota S| {al 31 éal ol a3

WBLe. F6¢ EVALWAT ION OF LIT WELTIWG §.

FOR f9le VE ALS.

COL QL S MRE POLRTEQ

CLLOR No STATED

Per Cent Number Per Cent

Total Certain | Doubtful | Total [Cestain | Doubtful] Total fCertain | Doubtful

Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total

| M4 we dl Os| 47

A ‘i FA OF GE| IS
j 46\ S| O06) 19

, . Lt gol AA Of

, S| 04| GI a3

7O\ Z a0| 2.7

1 | 02 GO| G2
| G| 02 |22
4 /| aziz.

Evaluation

:Ginsuffic. Info.

Psychological

&-Unknown

S-Other

Ooubtfull Total [Certain| Doubtful Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain

Doubtful} Total | Certain

Doubtful)

Evaluation

0-Batloon

L Astronomical , co /\|4/| 00
[3-Light Phenon. | /| Zi Zbl 2. 2| 00 00
|4Birds hy ‘ A 2 /
S5-Clouds, Dust, etc ) ae OAL
fe-insutic. tno. y LO\2 OO
LP sychological , 2/| O/
8-Unknown A WwW
[8-Other ALO! B/
= 2127 2/137 FI\TE| B23

CLET 24 Gon i; PLLA

Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent

1__Evatuation Certain [Doubttul[ Total [Certain | Doubtfui] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Ooubtful] Totat }Certain [Doubtful [Total
(Balloon L On Alall /\ 9 aw
1 L-Astionomscal /| 2|\/\2424| Goi a/\ o |
zur Zl / Oi 2h O24 /\ oe |
sigtrrem. | 21 210 | fo Zol de] Z| 7 : ]
4-Birds f|/ | S| eo ati at Z
SClouds, Ousterc.| 21 2 | 2 | 0d 2A\ 4, o |
G-Insuttic, tale. LAIOC\|E | 00 20) 0) 2
7-Psychologicat LIOLCO MI 4a Zio
C- Unknown Jig l|/ {al aol a/ 2
S-Other “Lo 2,20 BALA P| 2
(Total AW 924, OANA

TABLE. Aes LEWQLYATIONW QE CBIECT _SYIGHT(UWGS FOL ML (a Ky
y AEP ORTEA
WE OP G Lowi Wri ETAkd- LaLok We ATED
f Pet Cent Number Per Cent Number
1 Evatuation Certain Doubtful, Total [Certain | Ooubtfull Total eta | Dotti] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtfut
A/B2 GY\ GOVE 56| AS|ACAZ,S| 20| 4S) 56| 29

| a-Aueratt

i
13-Light Phenom,

All 2S 4d

PSA 2.0| 3.9 51 5217371 3.9) 24

7 a 4/| ottoel 3f gi 7!
-Bires asl i 2| £144 2 a3
jClouds, Dust, etc. 23 3 Y Of Zi) 0.21 / ‘Z
(mate Obs. Z\4¢(|22| O22) 351 2
QH\ 2D 2\/olag\ oJ ast
a0 2li2| 5/| Gl s/[ 721 0
i J JAZ E7| ON OBIE! 4

LE tie FEL. HEED {PEF bh LOW CL DLLE NOT MYON
Number Per Cent Number Number Per Cent
Evaluation Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Total FCertain| Ooubttul Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Balloon | 7 | 22 PO o/\/4| Feta 24| 10
[Astonia 33|_ | s¢| i7| @7| 24 asl AS Zi
2-Aircrat att Var? Ob\ Lb\ 7\| 7\/4) 83 03
3-Light Phenom, /| 2 A 00
i¢Birds A GO| GO| | OC 40| 0
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. Z i” Al) al 2| 01 2 gol aol Bd
G-insuffie. info, G 201 08) 7| 2 a4
[2-Psyetologica 2 iG bO\ 0/1) 01 o | Ol OO 20\ 2
Othe | 2l7 O/| 44) 3| 7 CL O2
Totat 37 Ol yss| ware [6l| Zo] B/E sala AN GIVOE| LE \S2 FL 201 EF
I WELL OY LR LLWINGLELLOWN EYLWE OR EL WE Bll, EPLALA ap lhvowie LAIN fe OLIW, LNOETERUINATE L/OLOR
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number | Percent |
LL Evaluation Certain Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Tota! [Certain | Doubtful! Tota! {Certain| Doubtful] Total eat Dosti Tot Certain} Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful Total Doubtiul ; Total
D-Batloon 4é\ G|2¢) 47) ae 7 al 7 gl a/] a/| a2 VA “ala a / Ol\ 02| d,
1-Astronomical ela] p/| 26| 77 2g| /ol ze 3] asi 77) / 21\| 40\a/ ara 0.0\_0.0\ 2b
P-airrat 22) fel [10 A246] $l 7 74a ode: a5] C3 OF 713 | a/lo/le-2
le Binds Ol 2 2100] a aN Ol O[ 2[ ad] a0 no| oflO/1 | O12} aol Gol 2d
Isciows nee! Z| /| / [Aol aa ol 2) ol ool 00 00| 21g Ana
isnuticme. | 74] 4|¢[a4| 00 os) 3| 21 Bl a/| 00 O5| ablas| 0| Ol ol 2d ool aol
rome | 21 2121 a_obos| 7| /| 21A/| a al alo of 2lol esl aol Zo
Unknow 2 LH OO 44) 26) ol 2zl12) 20 2. goed] (| CL Fe Ge VE
Othe Zl 2/5] 4" alloz 2{-2 2/a/| fo 21 Ob a/\0/) pl el ol ad] ao ao
aa : zt rtastaaas
Tota YL P| W2N\ISI\ $3) FINALL 22) 2/1 7317.31 12 FEISPA\SAWT\ OP\LBY FN ZN ZNO. OZ

£7] LWA GRAY
Number - Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Total [Certain | Doubthut [ Total Doubitul] Total Fertain | Doubttul [Total [Certain [ Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Dowbiful | Total
{0-Balloon 00 2 OWA =
1 1-Astronoaical 0./) 2 / / a / YZ /
4| 2 / BL\ Of
ail 2| 2(2 20| 20 St
2 2| 2 |e 20| 20 =
OO) O| O\D A0\ Lo —
[an s| el 7 LO 2 eS
an of Cle O.0\ 0.0 ee ee
ee ee ee ee
Ol OA 3 [LSTA/| A/ia2y | Td
143

z F ZL. DQ, t VYERES
: A BEL OF OCSECTS PER SIGHTIWG WE LCE SECT
die YEwes /2¢T SFE LPED
Wumber Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful! Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doutta | Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total stain | Doubtful! Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [ Doubtful] Total | Certain [Ooubthu! | Total
[aon 228\/¢7| 375) 7-5] c.s\scl s|_ol[ s| zol col zo] ve| 7 s¢l ol w¢| zo. 5| vl] ¥3[ 75 [| 58]
-Astronomical L8.1| 12.9\ BLO] RF 34 G8 I 20.3] 20.3] 46 ra (23 S?.
[a-averat 227| /97 ea rele o S| 3.0| e¢] 2¢| ce[ vol 26| 3.7] 723
stunt Pron Tre] | sol 08] os5| 73) 2 | 26| o6| zef e| oe] ef] aol aolao|
Buds ‘{ @tl_2 ofloez] o | 2] oe eolse| of o|f | oo gol aa
7[s2| elo¢|osloz7] o | 0] e0| aoleo] of o| 2] ao] ao[ co]
x| e¢ ool rg] 2 ) aoleol ¢| of tfasl aclos|
SO 97| O| #9[ er] ool gi] 9 | 8| ¢3| 00] ¢3l ol ol vol z/[ eo _2/
| | [| T | | | J - [| 7T JT f y fT Tf
Total * 731| 6 77| 2¢0| 7.8| 29.2 foo. | 6F 35-9 /7A\ /€5|32¢] 55-3 671 120. |
19 S 2 [_—“‘s‘“CSsSCSCSCOY
Number Pes Cent | tunber |] Percent Per Cent
Evaluation Certain Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubthul] Total (certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtha] Total | Certain Doutitul | Total
23| /¢| 327|/<9| 70.3] 27a] ew] rogl sud 76.5] 2
fe eed 3 | 05| 10.3 | 263

45| 04| 2 9 | 23| vol 06] sel | | | ft
o| 2} 2c| ae] oe 2 o| ofoe| coleo]” | | {|
0! o| aol cal ao 12\2/ 1071 | |

o| ol 74 aol olvslst| aol gil |

ol 2[ 5 ze 212s} 17 ec| 47\ |

@ ALG 272e| 0 200| 2.0lzo0T |
lcaesaiteat | ||

sasbess|729| 271 \roo.) |

CE LZ, WG. ZZ
WWMBER. QE OBIE LTS FER _ SIGHTING TWO
fit, VEN es LPLT LPLE
Pes Cent Number Pes Catt Number Per Cent

Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain| Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Tota! Cestain] Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubthull Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain

| <3] sol zelsel of of of aol a°| col 7 27g) 2

7.3| séla¢e]_ 7 | of tls ao a 3 2

O| S| of aol 0.0 / o

O| O| 00] aol aol o °

5-Clouds, Dust, etc. o[ oO 2.
&-insuffic. Info, (Re)

2-Psychological oO | |

&Uninown Zz 4 Zz

_ rer 1

JP 50
Munbes Pes Cont | Percent
Evatuation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful Certain | Doubtful | Total

0-Batloon f oO / 0.0 =
Astronomical oO 00| AO
Aircraft & | Rh |
ptigt Prema, | 0 pf
Birds O p+}
S-Clouds, Dust, etc. ra] | | |
Sinsotic. wb. | |
a FT 4
&-Unkrown g | |
T= a P14
| _Tow 781 7/1 /Plol ssbeo ls | ol & lead 20 yoo [ vol 67 lzoriczélsz2¢lvo. tH} p ft ht

144

TAELE bak LVALY ATION OF. ALL 5S, Zz ALL SE,
WM BE OF _ _ . PER LEH TTA GREE 0 SEW __COBIECTS.
[ Aét  YErRS SPET J9EP
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent

Evatuation Certain | Doubttul] Total [Certain | Doubtful} Total ertain | Doubtful Total [Cestain Doxa] Tot Cestain | Doubtful] Total Doubtful | Total
D-Batton volesi¢gziesizAar| ol (lv polyA Q a oye LO\ 220
{1-Astronomcal 1z| (7 20| zvylsv7| ol o 20| a0lae 2 EAU ZA
DAuctatt BE VOS|S S| 6b | 2Pn | oO] O|\ 29 2 / 7 | 72 | Es 127 | 325 |
Light Phenom. Ol /El 41 281 791 O| O|O  2a\ 2e|
Buds 6] ¢l7| zzi vel ol of 0 Ze W
$-Clouds, Dust, ete. o Cla2izagoao|l|oito A, v7)
Ginsutfic. nb. ol¢2(zg| golazs] Z| o
1Psychotogicat /| 4! Sigg sei sg} oO A\2@a 42
bUnknown 0 o8lwslooles| 7| o LA 20
2\esle¢| ae elole PAWL

Total 273) SF |357 i.5\g55 WYRE) 1 l2e5|%07| ¢o0yo|l 7

Per Cent
Evaluation Doubtful}
0-Balioon 10\ os
L-Astronomical 20; 20
2-Aircratt ?3| £6 ,
3-Light Phenom. 20| VA
+ Birds q 22
‘5-Clouds, Dust, etc. OO
Ginsuffic, Info. ao
1-Psychological {22
B-Unknown 7 QO
S-Other ‘A ge
Total ah
LHBLE 209 LVALY ATOM Za BLL FL £2 (CARS
WUIVGER OF OB8JECTS PER LOM TSM SE ELEVEN OR QE _QESE CTS.
Bit Yenes JPET LPLE /P2EP
Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Hhomtes | Percet
i Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Oowbttul] Total [Certain] Doubthi] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total Certain] Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total |
1-Astronomical 7 €| 4/12 O| oO} 0 f 20 \%6.0|250 (AA O!|2O
2-Aircralt 3 G PIiZ2 a4 o (4) [e) BO\Z5.0 lol /| / laa él xe!
sit Pron, | 3 | O o| o| olg ao0| Zo\a0| O| ©| ol4e|aal\ ad
Birds 6G] f o| O!1o 00\ 2O\20 | <¢| O| £\zezi agilera
S-Clouds, Oustet.] O | O O| O10 Z0\a0\ 0| o| ol a aelaa
G-Insutfic. Info. o O1ol|lo Bo sol SF | Ol sizzs| aelze
|1-Peyehoogical “| €lz2] celvzl 7l7i aie 1a |e) /| O| | sel gals
Unicow ol¥¢elwd aolwe2| s| ols | 2a\a0| 6| O| 6 [#23] aol ees
S-oter | 6lszl ried | ol 7! faglae{ | Ol 7 {5.2 aol sa
[ ee ee eee
Teal 14) 9S les shez le 171 7 18 | & ly0l 2s. om [/7) 7 | ely y| Fela!

oO
L
Zz

145

WUMBER 00 CBIECTS — (ER SIGMTUME

LZ

Per Cent

Number

Per Cent

Certain | Doubtful] Total Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthil] Total Certain
99| aA \ Ke. 2 26| Go| £8
fal A HE |g0.2 23| 298) vas |vaz’
B7\VE2Z) o\ Z| zi ag 5
Zo as\ 45] 2| 2] 2| 61 aol es
22 2 ZZ\ 2 Z| 7| 22) 27! ao
at| od gé| 2| 2 e\eclao 20
L5' QO\GS 2 Ere QO
Z aw z2|_o| 2les nol esl
A az AVE a
[z2| g/l z/ 47] ge Of 2yesl aolest
226.8 \/@0 Slsrgarlo lo | gz

Evaluation
10-Balloon 19
L-Astronomical
2-Aircraft
3-Light Phenom. f
4-Birds 4
cee ma a
cee ma a lato,
2 tose 4
a
Total a

j LIS2
Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [oertan [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Certain Total | Certain [Doubital | Total
{Balen go GolGolso\ j L7\ES
{1-Astronomical L\G0\e0\e0 4i #7 Sg
AVAVIAVY slezl zclz2g
QPIZO| 20 \20 Z| 2| PI 20 2| 20
Daeloo |acelye\|_ 2\ #’\e3| golos
2\eolzolae| #| /| A er, 2g = =
‘\@ol aolpmolss| ol zs \20.0\ Golo
ani al as anand = _
VA re

ZYVYAGQQIO yw

147

SUL LALLA. LE WWI _SI@GHTIWGS FEC Atte VeEARS ay
LE. LELEETS. LER Sl6HTUNG THREE _7Q FEW QBIECTS
f LIA 9
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
ain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubttul| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain [Ooubttul | Total
2 4a 2 22\K8 A 20g ol _2| vlael aa ag
} 1-Astronomical 2 2 Zige2 g go 2 v7] | ae] acs
"2eueratt 2 z| 2\ zlgzlae Z 223
2| 2! ae caveel | al alael ac
2 ww ZL Z| Lz ra / PyParz
ee ee aes
2 41 Ae C\ AAG +2] 2 Qo
Z A al ol ela 20d 2 /\ sel aol xe!
2 AW, = 2 ah 20
Q g A, O 2 = Z. 221 _ g Z\la PALMAE.
| | J tT Tf | PrTrry Ty fT
Z élya a WA 10a WAW aca

Certain | Doubtful

Evaluation
fe Z 2|. 2
1-Astronomical WA go
2-Airceatt & /
(S-Light Preman, 2 BE
4+-Birds o
| 2 22 a a

2 2) ae| 20120

“4 O0| OO 20
— ries oo ee

O\22

[2Other Q.0\| O02
Total
z, Z LZ GAIMGS  £OR Get YEA
WEBER OF OBJECTS PER. SIGHTING, ELEVEW OR /9O0RE _QBIEETS
Ath VERS g LES B LISI
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful} Tota! [Certain Doubitull Total Cestain} Doubtful Total | Cestain! Doubttul] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain i Total | Certain } Goubtful | Total
0-Balloon ‘2 264 2 Ly jack ahaa 2 ABP AZo C\ 22 er
Astronomical A 2 sae 20 er Oo /lae -~ Brie ABO
sit Preme | 7 Tel al elad 2al ag 4 y, 2| 2\ao| or
-Bits Y “ 2\_ 2| alaol aelad ov y Ze a0 laa wa | al z2isd_2ol
S-Clouds, Oust ete.| 77 ool 7 Azolgolaodl gl ol alao zolze| 2| ol Azel 2a
S-Insuffic. Info, 1H O Ar 0A /\ O|. 4\Boel a2olZso ZA
| vl z ez Zl a2l esol aa laa) Z
re 2 Z| G0 22\ Be IL,
aa _
OA J

SS S
hey nN
NEN
SS

Z
Z
V4
20 aa 2
(EULA (Le /

FOSUERERREEA
PEE TE

TASLE Rib LVALUATIOW OF OB JECT SIGHTING Lt VE RRS V4
WUMGER OF _O@JEETS PER SIGHTING 5 WE OCB ISECT ~
DLA LIY: L9¢ Of 9
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number
Evaluation Certain [Doubttuly Total Certain] Doubiful] Total [Certain | Doubthel] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Doubtful | Total [Certain Total [Certain [ Doubtful] Total ete
ee ele aud a allele ted at at elaeel
:kAstmoonical vel szély2e| ez agize| 7! PUSE.61 9-3 128. s| /7 MN Z/. . | 52] zl eg] se8|szc |
[zeauecat 174 \ W3\377\0 7 [40 we 2] 2 ware eet soy af ecbatl ys te
Hig Prenes. | 77 Vi_zl al 2| 44 2a | A s\ag\ aclasl al al ol aa col aol
(-Bids / 2 2 Ae] 20 | ziael esl-sl al el ol eel aol aol
Clouds, Oust ete | 7 2 2 Ao\aa\ 2 4 2}22) 2cj20} 2} 2 2| 401 ce) 00)
Ensue. ih , a| W\u2.2| do bez Hel a ee eet ie
TPactoloial | 2g ? | 2l¢¥l gal¢vl al al elaol aeclool -| ol -laz7laolaz
know gt) 2 olz22| aelze2| al p/\2.2| gole2 sl ol ses] cols
Tota W710 | dee use 7 s\2¢ sla l97|_ gly lge2l oz slew | 7) 76 sbzol ole | ee | eo) ls. 71e7 lw. |
(ei O52 |
Number Pet Cent Number Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Ooubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttul] Total [Certain | Doubttul] Total [Certain] Doubtf[ Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful! Total Doubtful [ Total
= dale oo led a 3 ae 2
LAstronomical LL | PI NAZINSOO \27/ fg 0.9 \255 ACMEL:, peeled | L—
2-Aircraft 0.0\ 5.0\ 15.0) pf | 4 9 221 U2. 240\ #2 10.8 22.0 |
3-Light Phenom. Go| go\oo0 £0) 20 “s ae
Birds Zo\dolvnad ol ol slag adool 2_el el zoel zoled
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 20 zal de Q2\ 02} 2|129| 2.0\ 20 Q122| 26\ 27 |
Ginsuftic, info, EO OOO} | 0\ wi8Si poe| Gave ales BO\9
Psychological ‘Yi ool rl “| 2lral zelzol 22) zl 2y[zelaz|z2l | | | [| [ |
sOther S| 2/1 7 sf a 2 -9| aol 79 12) ¥e\3.3| -/ | V7 — |_| |
1 Total A OABOZ\ 19.3 V0 \ GO| 22 | o2\7¢.y| 2-6 |100. 1978) 3 ose S\2¢ 6 \ yoo.
TBbLE ALZ 2ye Z7 ‘77. A ZLVG LG ZZ E, ‘Ss i
WUIBER OF OB SECTS PER SLCHI LYE, _ 7ZWE _OBIECTS
Zora ide ea
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent
Evatuation in | Doubtfull Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain| Doubtful) Total ertain | Doubtful} Total Certain} Doubtful) Total [Certain] Doubtful Tota! Certain | Doubtful | Total
-Balloon IN87| 1/168 2| al ol oo 2d 2d Z| el 7 Ut 3}. 7 2o\ z |
1-Astronomical S.6\ 8 IIWF| 26.6|929 iA ao
P-airratt 2| | wd 15-8 a| “1W73| nol wz] 2 y,
'3-Light Phenom, LO\3 74 Z| P\Z0| Zoi go Z -a2}a) |
2400\ 2! O| elaoi Ze\acl 2
Q\ 20| go\ Bo 2-8 2ioo| gelpo| 2
78|22| aol gz] ol ol eleel aclaol 2
J FA 45\ 2 2 2) Pl AO| 2 i eal 2 i
3|_ o| 87 OLEAN S101 /I43| ao ivsl o
Fl 2) Ze sei ast 2 ol 21s §
4 nn ne
AAA TETAS Waa AEE ZA A |

ZhbLE AT ELALYATIOW LE QhIEEL Sl6Hrwas FAR Alt VEARS BY.
WWMBEL OF OBJECTS, ER SW6M7106 , THREE FO TEW  QGSEETS

OSL

Number
ertain | Doubtful i Certain

Per Cent
Certain Doubttul, Total Certain | Doubt Total Doubtful [Total Certain = Total
a

Evaluation Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful) Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total

O-Balloon
"Astronomical
zAurcratt
1$Light Phenom,
4-Birds
'5-Clouds, Oust, etc.
Ginsuffic. Info,
7-Psychological
&-Unknown
S-Other

t

Total

LISD CYA S95 2
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number
Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Ooubtful] Total {Certain{ Doubtful] Total Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain| Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtfu! | Total

2| a0 Lys) 20 128 y}
AZO 2AL0) Z|
GW $1250] £7193

2
f

ol clad adaal ol
Ol elad golpa v2

Evaluation
0-Batloon
1-Astronomical
[2-Aircraft
{3-Light Phenom.
(+ Birds

HADREAHA KS

|5-Clouds, Dust, etc. @102| G0\f0\ 2

i7-Psychological ol @leZaeg2 pave

'8-Unknown QO! S|F7/2 L2y oF |

9-Other / VAWA B3264 7

Totat

S
SS
iN
Ny

S
v

s\/0o.| 7| 3 asada top. \ 13: FAVG G\ITE \ op.

EVALUATIOW FE OP IELT EHTEL, LL ED, z2
Wihll Of OCBJEGTS PEL SIGHTING, ELEWEW Je MLE _QBIEETS

Tr

Number
Evaluation Certain i Ooubtful

0-Balloon
1-Astronomical
2-Aircraft

3-Light Phenom.
+Birds

5-Clouds, Oust, ete,
Ginsuffic. info,
7-Psychological

& Unknown

S-Other

Total SS =

4h

NOMIC

RNS NR WARK
Ls | {oy
ROK PISAVBn

Evaluation i Doubtful

SJB JS JO ISP FD | fs

Een eee ee ee eee eeenET et ee ee ee ee eee ae ae ae as 8
NI
IN

ff
li

Zi Z, Ei SLE WES 8 DAT ESTE,
ALL E MLS,
S Skeaps Ave ££. 6-0 Sé¢oups LC- 390 sFeoups 3/-60 séconps
Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Certain {Ooubtful| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total ECertain | Doubtful | Tota! |Certain

Doubiful | Totat

ertain | Doubtful} Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain [Doubtful | Total

Fl vofo7| eelasy af 5] ef 8] 3.0 48 19(2.6, 4.51747 7[ 7 a PYARAAF:
193| 286]32.7| 32.7/ CFM oy] 28172) 26-3] 6.8 (43.1 634/74 C423 es| co] as] 77] see
; 3al/44 2.41228 [8274] 3c] 320) 34 24 7 19.9) 2/344
. | 310. mite 0 palate

alsa ot leat ates

ee 0.91 0.8| jot soles
5 811.9) 1113.0 PARA) tee ;
. 0 el ARLE

BEL, Z S LOM,
LE ¢7
SSe0oves pve Less ESO Secovps U-92. SECONDS F-bG LSECOWOS
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number
Evaluation [Certain | Doubtiul] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttul Total | Certain | Dovbttl| Total [Certain | Doubtiul] Total {Certain
0-Baltoon OT o / of 1462
1-Astronomical q a 4 O| 4 1250
2-Aircraft d A) 0 / i | 00
Fe Light Phenom, Q 2, 0 01 o | o9
4-Birds Oo} 2 0} @ | © loo
S-Clouds, Dust, ete. 7 D| o| 9 | Offa
Sinsuffic. Info. (4 2 2, ¢ 2/25
[7-Psychological Q D o| f t
8-Unknown 0 iM, é 0 é
Tota 19 [1 2 Ao Z ae 216

TRALE : EVAL: Bel. S/CH TINGS. ZA Zz ZS
LIVE.

| J SE SECONDS Ane Less b=70__SéCowes = $2 SEcoyas 3/ —¢e SECouDs

Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
: Evaluation [Doubtful] To ‘ertain | Doubtful) Tota! [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubttul] Total [Certain | Doubtful [ Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain |Doubtful | Tota
rer re Laz 5.91 £5 g Z £ oo iat alee 4A O 0.0) 0.°| o@
“astronomical [2d 24 50d Z a2 6383) gi @ 7aWAKEd f1 09
ssp Proon Bee 7024 re ARZEIEZE Awe aol 841831 lol o eo 00
4-Birds 0.012%. aa 3 oll 90 rat tr Z Ob oo! @.8 001 oe] ola oO} 0.0) 09
5-Clouds, Dust, ete. 4 —4_at a . G\eg| ee 4| o ole.0| vl glo
Ginsuffic Wh, 00 aba Biever, se 0.0 ve a arn 00/93 a| / [an6| 0 \200
em wie wa 0.0] 00 00 ope a J\ aol doled) of af a [00] paleo]
a a 20 0.0|206) ¢ fu 00 zt 1 P ae 2 210.0] ool od
y, 7 29a o = a4 A_/| o0| 8.3] 83] /] a] 7 [2a0] 20 [20.9]
ak al chet cabo
__Totat 201 SAFE VSC8| 4.2) 109. g\6/) — 100. ST Ql 58.3] 4/7/40. 0.0} /0b.

Of SEtones — EM WUre, 6-30 _pywe Oven 20 premores Mer _ STArTEL

Pea i a Pet Cent Number en tome umber Per Cent

_ | Evateaton Goutal] Tolar [Certain | Goubtul] Total [Certain | Doubital] Total (Certain | Oogbthl] Total [bertan [Doubul| Tota Doubtful] Total [Certain rei Total | Certain [Doubitut | Total

a dM ae 33.4 ; eo 7.11344 Z| a0 0.0 (59.0 70| 70/40
Fastmail | /| 2| Tal staatsted 774 fie mal TEES He 091333] so de3 256/477)
DAireratt | i vi ¥{40.0| ¢ 72-71 7| . Ral 0.0] BA 5/4.

3-Light Phenos. Fatal of ee 0.0| 9.0 .

4-Birds
'5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

C-/0__ sécowes W320 S€coNvDs "3/60 SECONDS
Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful} Totat [Certain] Doubtial| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain} Doubtful} Total gCertain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [f Certain [ Doubtfull Total Certain | Doubths}} Total -

0-Baltoon O} 40} 0.0| 0.0 i 0.01 0.9! 0.0
1-Astronomical 6 | 00 | 42.9) 479 Be
2-Aireraft £190) 7.1
3-Light Phenom. ata 0.9} 6.0/0.0
4-Birds 5 . 5
§-Clouds, Dust, etc. ata
§-Insuffic. Info.
LP sychotogical
6-Unknown
9-Other

Total

b/ SE CtNIS — 5 MIINITES

Number Per Cent
Certain | Doubthul} Totat [Certain i Total {Cestain{ Doubtful

Evaluation

1-Astronomical ; ‘ oO 5 0.0) /3.3
2-Aircratt , : . 26.7) 40.0) 0
3-Light Phenom. . . . . o.0} 0. o
4-Birds : . : . 9.0) 04 2
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. ; . ; 0] 9.01091 2
Ginsutfic. into. 0.01 4YGl 7
[Psyeelgea 1| 2.2) 0.0] 7-241 0
B-Unknown 2L\A44, 0.01244 6
i= f12.2} 0.0] 2.25 5 Oo
Total us | 62.2) 37.8) 100, A

154

5 Z QE ALL | SOHT IN GS AY AA TIOW OF SOA TIME,
ISO
5 s&cones Awe LEss 6-0 sEcONes
Qumber Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain |Ooubtful) Total {Certain | Doubtful[ Total Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful Fo]

N

Gl 60 S&ConeS

Number Pes Cent
a Ooubtful = Certain | Doubtful | Total

lo Batoon o| ‘| 4a ao\| wel pl ol pl aol o9| eo afl Les FACE

A
easton | 1 2olveol zal eed | al 3 149 eee a 4 | 21 ad 200l20-4
2-Aucratt —, Dp (14d J a Ww
S-Light Preven. 0
5-Clouds, Dust, etc, eC 4 $
& Insuffic. info.
7-Psychological ol

i
SS

SAP
SSB HH Is

[ens | al i 20
sone J at ol ol ad 20

Pt _
i_Tota 1/71 rized 32g/ool |

2 Is
S “a
§ aS q ls | > IS 13

sas

6/ SECM ES — SPUNUTES

Evaluation Certain
0-Balloon
L-Astronomical
2-Aircsaft
3-Light Phenom.
4-Bitds
'5-Ctouds, Dust, etc.
G-insuffic. info.
7-Psychological
'8-Unknown
9-Other

~Bib bbs Ni]

st
[ 5 SECONPS Ane LESS 6-0 SEtOwlS “Ne BO SECON OS TF! b0 SECONDS

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttul| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total “aT Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total

0-Balloon ol o| ol del 2@. 0| 20| aol 22 9419/1 0
1-Astronomical 1c. 2| 12|588) 1.8 70.6 g\ (2,5| 62 5 ? ae O0 136.41 p

2-Aircraft els ; . 99 27.3
'3-Light Phenom. 2 O| d0| 0.0 . 2
4-Birds DY 2 oO st } ; 2

eC i

U3

Qa) 20| ae ‘Do

net ed 2\ aol gol ao
0.0| 08 QO| fo 2.0| 20!
aol 08 O\| 20} aol ao!
99 118.2) ol 0.0| 20

0

00) 00) al p oD 20\ 00

GI\ 4d
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

€-Insuffic. Info.

7-Psychological ‘ts i i Q
&- Unknown 2. 73.5) 09 Bs
9-Other 0.01 0.0

Tota 1S 2 Lal 68) WB Wo. 7 lézsi 12511004 /0

BP [9 |w

sisdb SP Als

YQ [SE PH fs

ek

FI}0O 3) 2 G00 #0.0| 100

Evaluation
O-Baltoon
1-Astronomical

155

mm eH Hee we Ee Ee Ee Ee eS Se eee ee eee ee
ny
X
iN
N
S

774 a9 z: G. LLG ,
ALL YEALS
S SECONPS AND LES CSC Secoves Y - 30 s€eones B/-60 sEcowoes
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthul] Total [Certain | Doubtful f Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful Tota! [Certain | Doubtful | Tota

0-Balloon me Ss
1-Astronomical silasbalav ol
ZAircraft 27) ¥6l £5

3 24 3.4 1 31 616 “0
g|_36 y A | ml s2l/7" 6h S| ras mm
a\ 20] la gike2.9] 9] 33 y aCe
2Ligt Phew, 7 44 | Ao | gal 22]
0 iyi

Zz

imAPy We

5-Clouds, Dust, zamel 7 a a3 WO) 2 061.09 pial A) é ot Ww
@ ag 2olS.71 “| 2 76 1p 0.8 23) vl ol 1 27 ae

7-Psychological a al: Ha Db ap\s.0| st 2 Z| 0 4A\_ 26

Unknown zi| 0 gA o6l ¢ 1s] pola 9] 3f| 0 iad a

Other 71 x latl2zd psi 3. 5] ool 1.51 ris,

} Le. . , 7 Yoo

| Total Wal /é ¢ = as 67\.2 shah LZ 4b A 2th li,

L- 80 MINUTES Qer FD ramores Nor Srareo

Number Number Per Cent
Doubtful i E in| Doubtful Tota! | Certain | Doubtful | Total

CRE

Nis

Bee.

Per Cent
Total [Certain | Doubtful/ Total [Certain

Evaluation
0-Balloon
}-Astronomical
2-Aircraft

13-Light Phenom,
4-Birds :
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

Ginsuffic. Info.
7-Psychotogical
‘Unknown

Number
in | Doubtful)

b

Number Per Cent
in| Doubttul i i in | Doubtful

Evaluation
0-Balloon

1-Astronomical
2-Aircratt
13-Light Phenom.
4-Birds

[5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
G-Insuffic. Info.
[7-Psyeboogical

aS

VPP |S ly BK fo |S

Qvew ZC piMures Mer STATED
Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful ain | i Total [Certain | Doubtful ertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain Doubtful | Total §Certain | Doubtful

in [Doubtful | Total

J-Astronomical
ZAircraft

DP DV ]s [9 [8 Js [gy |S Jo |
NaS
NS
SBR ES
aa
Cos)

re ee ee ee ee ee ee
bs
hy

Ss

QE OG,

S/-£D) secones

Per Cent

in| Doubtful

Evaluation

1-Astronomical

2-Aircraft

'3-Light Phenom,

5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

Qvep BO prwures

Mor Sr7areo

Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent

ertain {Doubtful ; Total [Certain | Doubtfut] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful | Total
Aw 0.01 0.9| oa s 49 0013.9
JL ¥lazal 71364 Je Ol 2/ te gi3e5
/ oa Gri ail 8 ast 5.9144
ol o| 94| 94] oat og
Oo 71 ag] Gel eol a
[2] o4| OM OML o

04d

TILE Age EVALUATION DF LET SET WES. FLA TL ZL
LIE
Setoves Ave LESS 610 Setonos (1-30 S E0ones 3/-60 Stones
umber Per Cent Number Per Cent Pes Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total (Certain | Doubthul | Total {Certain | Doubtful | Total Certain } Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
9-Balloon H| O| J SO ZOaSQh 2 O| O| BO Bb oo

*-Astmnamical

(SARA
2c | 3] ol sbn0| 20| see

FSS) IB0 25075 0 i FOL

6 é

Light Phewon, 2.2\ 00 26 col cl el olodaeled pf 0.0 20\ ob 2 j
SClouds, Dustet.| | | 10|\ p.6| pA _2| O| ol 20 AA O\ ?| GO| 24\ a2
Sinsuffic. info. 2) 0 ) , A /| ZL /I 42 2elé2) 2 2\ 64| 24| aol
tact | Ol 2 Z Ae) ot ad Load 2c etadl ad Op
HUnioown /[_2 loa /| Z| /\42 Bl gal s| 2il 3s 3]
Teta 15| Sl 2olzsa2sovea| 4| 2| 6 Wbérizzslvelzz|) £14 Veo“ 7) 21 2 \27¢\ 222)

Over 50 fonires.

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Ooubtful

LOWE.

Total Certain} Doubtful] Total |Certain] Doubtful] Total fCertain | Doubtful| Total ]Certain| Doubtful] Tot
ZA 7 2| W23A_ S7lzeal 7! BLS

2

| 20| ge
OL

5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

Ginsuffic, info.

QAP ASIS/Shs
S
mS
Ss
N

nad BE SSSI INAS LA aS

N
N
N
N
ES
x
N

7-Psychological

Evaluation Certain
0-Balloon GC
1-Astronomical £
2-Aircraft / 2
j3-Light Phenom. OQ Ma
Birds oO 2\ 20) O02 20
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.] 7 wy, 00| 0.0
[6 isutic. info. g
Z

DL A
QO 20\ Lb
b0\ 20) 0.

S

GO\ OL

O0\O0
L\20

2b| 20\ 0.0
40\ 1p

CvER BOM 7

Number Per Cent

ertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful! Total
Q| / |425| bole

2 [izs/z.sl2s0

P| O\026| 2o| 40

Q.| 00| GO| ab

Z \260| 20|25-0

O2120| 20 fo

S0\ O0| 250

21 oo aol 00

N] Sis INISIRRRKK
SHPAKH

IN

FNEZS|/A25VOON G7 4INISS\ AUS 00

z, MEMEO GNIS 4V Lhe ATION OF SIGHTS
fel YEARS.
SEt0ves AWe Less 6/0 Sktoves W320 Sbcones 5[-60 Secon
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful) Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Ooubtful| Total [Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Certain | Doubtful] Total { Certain | Doubtful | Total
O-Batlocn gi| | gl so 7727 AiR Es) Ree. Y a5 Gi # oe G0| 6.0) 12.0
bastononical = 7] 95] 671904 29.01 50-4 9 230\/6-F 3961 29) 77 2459 7 0.7|
PAircratt 22| 221 Zi SM /g|_ 9 27is9| 6.0234 36| 3/ 471/231 “at oe 42 ? 7\2 EN, EPA
>Lidt Pree. - tt ort 2 JA 7 creer e a0 re 13

ARS
bo [Ws Ske

pepe eceer ata ati
|g 2 ee 1S ie
gol ¥ 33
O

d|_2\ 2al aol
rey)
Sarees aan a ate
allay g 5 DD o 0.0|280
zit mine = aed a a 0 23
eat
Total 169| 1/7 \286 59.1 § aaa 1, D oats ELV EG e Sal ¥0| /50|73.3 (0,

Evaluation
(C-Balloon
}-Astronomical

rT eal 73 Doubtful Total | Certain
‘ eat

2-Aiccraft

'3-Light Phenom.

4-Birds

S-Clouds, Oust, etc,

-insutfic. Info,

7-Psychological

&Unknown

'9-Other

Total

Evaluation

0-Baltoon

1-Astronomical

2-Aircraft

jS-Light Phenom.

4-Birds

5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

&-Insuffic. Info,

T-Psychological

&Unknown

5-Other

Total

Evaluation

O-Balloon

1-Astronomical

2-Aircratt

ertain [Doubthul] Total [Certain [( =| Total [Certain | Coubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful [ Tota

Light Phenom,

4-Birds

5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

&Insuffic. Info.

1-Psychological

'8-Unknown

Other

Total

TRAE AIT Ewart OW OF OBIECT SlaHT iW ss BY LATION. OF SBHTMG,

LIVE.
5 Secowes Awe GEE 6-/0_ S&c0nes L030 Stoves _B/-bO SS EL0nos
Evaluation Certain Tabi Total [Certain
10-Baltoon L i] / o, 3
M cAstoroni cal Ss 12. ;
2-Aucraft é Zz
Light Phenom. /
a-Birds al 7
5-Clouds, Dust, ete. ol o
Ginsuftic. Info. oO LZ
7-Psychological 0} 2
S-Unknown es
Other Z| /
Total /5 | & | &3

ol Seconos — FEMMES Nor STATES
Number Per Cent
L Evaluation Certain | Doubtful) Total |Certain| Doubtful! Total {Certain | Doubtful} Total |Certain| Doubthii] Total #Certain Total [Certain | Ooubttul] Total FCertain{ Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Battoon LVAS| H/\z22\) 7 Si | 7192 wIF/E
Astronomical Z2|A1 A! \22 12: 5) 3] 2/1 23127. 3) 4:
2-Wireratt J 1333} 00 723] /| { , i fis VEAL
3-Light Phenom. 2|00| 0A Bo , 4 , , 0 Z10.0| £6} 16
te AWE) O| &7| b PW) ae ee 4.9|
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. Ol 0.0| Bb d 20\ a , ) (7) A 2) 06| ool 0?
6-Insutfic. Info. vA Lf Oz 2 fi 4 OO OD IZ) a LEV 0.0 If
T-Psychological OPO GO| 0.0 , . o| dl Zi ogdl pol Ce
Unknown fi OOM. i A 4 . a 66! O00 bb
[Total 223/00, 3196.70. al pollo 3él 25167 legolv OV
TABLE AIT EAL UET ICAL OF OB SECT  S/GHT GS BY WekATIaW GF S’1@AHTWG,
IGP
& Seton eS ESl _S feones PlI-60 SS E0ONnes
Number Number Per Cent
Evatuation Certain | Doubtful Total fCertain| Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Baltoon 0 rit Lb 20 a1 at A2\_40
1-Astronomical PENX 2 [2j q 40 [32
2-Airceatt Al 4 f €
3-Light Phenom. ° fs) OO 00
+Bird O A h
5-Clouds, —ust, etc. fa} fall
Ginsuffic. Info, a (a)
7-Psychalogical a) | (a)
&-Unknown 7) g
9-Other a
Total 15
| bf Seconns — FMMWTES
Number
| Evaluation Certain | Doubtful
O-Batloon 0|
F-Astronamical at 3
2Aucratt 3 FA
Light Phenom, Ol g
4-Birds ol ¢g
§-Clouds, Dust, etc. oO ral|
Ginsuttic. info. 3 0
7-Psychotogical Og 6}
8-Unknown K 0
SOther A A)

TALE B99 EVELUATIOY OF OB La SUM TM ES CY We ATM OF SIGHT INE
LIS2

& SECONDS Ane LESS 6-10 SEcones fl-3 0 Séconves F/~b60 OF cones

Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation [Total |Ceria [ Ooubtul] Toa fain [Dutt Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [ertain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total (Certain | Ooubtial| Total | Certain [Doubtful | Total
(-Balleon /L a7 00 672i al A) 06 OO OA Ol /i s| dbpalpe CAGHAY/AAWAUIV/AA
FAstrononical : o| 3 GO\750 | O| Z\|wmo 20 |Zal 2 2] 20/22 212422
ZAieraft / a 0.0250 5 \30.0120.0 520) g al Adl2Z24
3-Light Phenom. O| ao af 2} 2] lL, ie 2) i 1 ee Ob| a0
-Birds ololod & ml a ole zr Of o| AZ O bol ab
Clouds, Oust, etc. al ol Go| pol ol ole id zr OO o| dol ao gol Zo
GInsuffic. tno. elo A Ol /wol OAIAA Q lol Wl pol 2a
7-Psychotogical Ol o| po 2d pel Al o AE oi 0 ol ol el od fol od
ee al eo | 2a cise 2 g.0\ 0O\WL eS aed
2 Lol Lal 2 al ol a nay, ZL Liki) aan
(_Total 2 So ets

6/ Setongs~ $ Mweres L-Bb Mi wwreks Qe BOM YeTES Wor STATED

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
L Evaluation in | Doubtful] Total |Certain | Doubtful! Total §Certain} Doubtful) Total |Certain| Doubtful) Totat —Certain Certain | Doubtful| Total | Certain} Dovbtfué Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Bafioon ZI\AS6 2| 70 lad 26 Zi dl 4 Ashe
1-Astroaomical a) fs 2 2 va 0.0 ot £. SM 6,
2-Aircratt Z BALL Lib] o| A WY 3/21.
Light Phenom. g 00 (2 Atal oad ae ol ao d|_ ol 6[20| go
4-Birds (2) 0.0, 0 20o| Ob ia) O| O| oOl|Zes| go a9
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. fe) 0.0 2 Ae) 2] aL, O| Oo} Ala f
Sinsutfic. nfo. fa) OD Ob Z| 2 ‘A C4 N29 2
7-Psychological 7) , ran) g 9a i) 4 2\2.0| JOo| 00
&Unknown iy 36.04 alls . a] £1 01 818 Ball4e
Other Z Bil 2 Z. 2 2 a2 0.6| 47
[Total 3 WARZAVLA EZ VA\TYAV AN a ne a Do\¥6\ 8 | Agsaliy e100
2 Z 7 GF OB/EZLT BY Ss SON &y LMG
LEEL
I/-60O Setapos
Number
Evaluation Certain [ Doubtful] Totat [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtiul] Tota! [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain | Coubttul} Total
0-Balloon |
1-Astronomical
2-Aircraft
3-Light Phenom.
+-Birds
S-Clouds, Dust, etc.
G-insuffic, tnfo,
T-Psychologicat
B-Unkrown
ps

iz ‘Y, SICHTUV Fe ‘x SE ZV

fa MOUTHS OF YEAR FIVE__SEtowos Ge LESS
[sd IVIL LEBRUAR —_“theen «mE
Per Cent Pes Cent Per Cent Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [ Doubtful] Total | sas [| aT Certain | Doubtful | Total stain = Jotal jCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | hare Total | Certain | Doubtful | Tota

=|? SOE PEECE Pie or Orel oer
tastownical | 51 27/26 0.2 I SHG eH Lt 27 a ga wl ol wle/| 2alecs
ireralt | al _ gl ole eled cd 0.4 on) | zl ol 2lyl aol a
Light Phenom 2.46 eleal-ad celal aca 2d ad
a ee rarer
scm otec| ol ol olf | 22\_22\ 20 |
Geseftc. hb. 2} 2-2 | 46| Zal| sal
fePatwiogcd | 7] ol / 20\23| e| oa| ol ao! | 2| 2.01 0.0]
2l27| zele7| 2! ol ol Ll A2
2} 4 /|ao\|zz\s7\ 7 anal ae 26 20

(__Tota | gle2elsol%zizz3sa ls} ely AAS. 2

Let AWE
Number Pes Cent Number
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain} Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certai

0-Batioon Zi_2| OlZe| 2olo.o0 a| /|3.7| 0.0/27
Astronomical Zé F| 9 1250\ 125 y, J | /81370| 276666] 77 | 27 (62
2-Aircraft £ ‘| 61Q8i4/|WA 2 44 FALL 3.748
3-Light Phenom, 2} 0| Olaa\ 2ol gel gl g| O|?%?| ae a0
Birds IZ, Ol00| 20! 00 o| go} O} 2° 00] v0
Clouds, Oust, ete] 7 | ol} / , 2|_ o| O} 4o aol 20
G-Insuffic. into. J o| 7 Qo\l2@5| fF PAE AW/A
Psychological al eo] ol zd ey aa o awe :
-Unknown o| 2\¢ x 4 ea| A] ae 09| 0.0
9-Other aap sles ics oD &f Z 4\3.7} 2.0
(Total 20| +l 2¢igez7|~47 oo \/8| 7 lez
SEPTEMBER Cerohék —_Meresge DE CE ta GER
Number Te Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Vota [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Cestan| Doubifil] Total (Certain Doubtiul] Total [Certain] Ooubtiul Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Baltoon Ziv 0.0] 2| 2) <| Go| sé| sé 2
Astronomical o\22|472 7 ely Lov VARs
2-Aircratt pH 2 Z| #| €1281 27 Zz 2
2-Light Phenom. ol @ 2 AUN AVAAWE 4 2
Birds | | 2 Z a2 . 2 2
S-Clouds, Dest, etc wi y 0\.2\ Alaole a2 Q
E-mnsuffic. Info. z| @ ZL 2\| /iz2 d . A Z
/-Psychological , Vd, 2 2 / vA
E-Uninown og j S| al FIZ JS ga
¥L2/\¢0\ 0 lo [231 12136 W774

[7s lzglvealsx zl. | el 2

165

TRLE  AlOL. EVAL UATIOW OF ALL SIGHTINGS. FOR ALL VERRS BY DULOTIOM GF SIGHTING
FOR ~IOWTAS OA VYERL , SH 70 EW  sEC#OWIS

Per Cent Number

Doubtful | Total

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Number Per Cent
Certain| Doubtful Total | Certain { Doubtful | Total

| Evaluation Doubttul[ Total [Certain] Ooubttell Total [Certain Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain
0-Baltoon AA ($1 0° S3| /| o| s| sal aelse A AW AAWPEA AS
— 4 2 0.0\75.01 F£ | aleal eel £2 A gg
Pret an S\eso| 2| 2 sol gol sal ¢ Z| 12 \26.0\ 25275
3+Light Phenom, vA £I\ £3 Z| 7 ER AWLAA EA
Birds C 2 00\00| gi ola a 221 DLN 0
Go| 8°) 061 o| 9 | AlZ2| Azl aol 2
E-Insuffic. Info, 2 47\_?. | 47) Z| 212 laa Zeigol /
{7-Psychological o 0.9| 0.0| 00] o od 22\ 0201 2
&-Unknown o tb- Sr tA 0| 2ol sol 7
og 0.0 o [A P\202| 22| Bo f
Zz O\1 | 10 \2ZO0\6GASD OVO | FO) 1/

SEP, WW

. Number Number

Evaluation Doubtful Total Certain] Doubtiul] Total [Certain| Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain] Doubtful Total
(0-Balloon / / a oO a
1-Astmnomical z /\_ 2 4
2-Aircratt WA Zz Zz 2
3-Light Phenom. a 2 2
+-Birds Z
5-Clouds, Oust, ete. a 2 2 2
G-insuffic, into, AA og Olo
Psychological Z| a A G\oQ
Unknown Jial¢ 213
frome 2\leo ele
[a = sla AWA ae

166

€ Z ‘E, MAT LO,
FOR LION THES. QE EAR FLEVEN FO 7THIRT; SECON OS
Per Cent
Evaluation — Total Pa Doubttul] Total fal [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain
O-Baltoon es 0.0| ao wavs aa AWA
1-Astronomical 2 0.0) we vs fae 631 7 Z| £ 4
@Aircraft Y, Qo , | gl SV/% | 4s |
3-Light Phenom. 2 QO| 4.0 20 Hs 382g DAMIWArs
4-Birds Zi _a\| O| 40] 4.0 ee 0.0) Ania
SClouds, Ovstet.] Z| pl O| 20] 0.0 2 0.0| 00 Mawr
Ginsutfic. no. [als 0.0 is 0.0 ra | al el 2]
Paytogal | ol 2 ae 0.0| 00 bore a0] 2.0] 2.9) , | ol o| 2]
tram | Zh ation 2.0 |¢o0 4. a| 2|so0 aolsed | 2! 3lezla0le7] sl 2 5 [238[ 20 |
som | vl ol oleol col col gl al of aol aoleol | gl volazlaz Pat tas
Total 9| / | sO) 709) 700 |/00] ¥} 2 f00.0| 8.0 | /08, 4 \ 16 alas foo. | /8| FANS.
L4 SWE MUGUST.
Number Per Gent Number Per Cent Number maT Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total Certain | Doubtful} Total §Certain| Doubtful] Total | Certain} Doubtful] Total (Certain | Doubtful! Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [ Certain’ Doubtful! Total Doubtful | Tot
0-Balloon /| /| 2\|s3\ ezloel Z| Jl / | ssl ZO) sé Ou ot
Astronomical 21 G7l| 2l@sigojos| /| 21 ¥) x6 é 7 72 16.0 2d 0.0
-niterat | ZL al 3|4¢| s| 2] 727 oi ¢¥ of (se fealeed
3-Light Phenom, 2 4s Qo\SI\5.2| 2 O\| O1L0 Z| 7 / Ge 0.0
Birds a|_+| ¢[oo| szls3z] 2| 2l ola g| 2
SClouds, Dustet.}] | 9! Al gd aalas 2 Z| 7\ 20 Wi Q\| 7} 00 2.0
catch. | | ol 41a] gal~s| 3! ol S147 2
7-Psychotogical 2 2 2172 00\ 00 Oo o| a LO OO OP 2 O}0O| 20| 00
Unknown 2| 2 les goles] 2| “ol ela Q
9-Other ‘| @\ / iss Cots3l o | Qigd Z| 21 O| 00 00
Tota Ss Pao l2/ loo (13 5 | 78\r22\ 276 lw L6d 291 WV loca wooo l2eyl /2| 4oltes 27 s[/00,
SEPTEMBER LutDa Mob. GELEVIGER
Number Per Cent Number PesCent Number
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain} Doubtful) Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful| Totat
D-Baltoon Z|. 2| 2\|gelwzle3] 7) al 7 ie Z2\_2\ 9
L Astronomical /| 7 q BA, V4 Oz
Pair ¥| 3| 7laAzoluz| 7 2 ida Z| 2.2
|3-Light Phenom, 2.271 Pl eel az\iael 2| zi @2logl eleel 2| ol?
Birds Z| ©| 20 ag| gael 2| 2) Olagel agize| Z| 2
5-Clouds, Dust, ete A ie 41/1 f0\ gs Q2| g|o
G-Insuffic. Info. , 74 / G\/ D0 o Q\| oa
7-Psychological 4 A b. wa ClEO\|lgmlaelael oe Q| 9 jee oe
B- Unknown A 2 ‘Z Oo aol /\| elv las gale) 2) g| of 20 2.0
a 2| el acl 2a ze ante aola0| 2| ol e| el 20
— S| 71/83 Z lap. 10 LFS 26 b | 100. O| ¢\cao| 6,0
167

S/ATY SECON OS

__ THIRTY OWE 7O

Number
ertain | Doubtful | Total |Cestain ertain | Doubtful [ Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Totat
O-Baltoon 2 2
1-Astronomical 2

zZ VA
2 2
a 2
g ACAROAA Z
2 o| 22 2
a Zz L.
O LIZ 2
2 /112\%7| £7 lw Lao

Evaluation rein Total [Certain aot Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain
0-Balloon Z| @| ACA Boagal 2
]-Astronomicat / ARGSIN/AAC LA
2-Aiscraft VAG L224 20
3+Light Phenom. ZICOA Be\p0O| 2
Birds Z COA A000) @
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 21 PI2A?P A200 2
6-insutfic, info, 2! 2| PICA Gale Z
[J-Psychological o PG\ 20 20\ pd 7
Buninown Z|_ol #\l ee 2a} #85
9-Other Pl o| lao ada Ca mA
1 Total g 7 SAS BAWLLA va] 6 |

Evaluation
0-Balloon

L-Astronomical

2-Airceatt

3-Light Phenom,

S 1S DW ISIS | [ds fH AS

2
|+-Birds Co
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 2
€Insuttic. info. vA
7-Psychological 2
8-Unknown 2
9-Other i)
Total Ss

L CHIU,

FO 21 C, CBr d EY? DE SECON, Ly (E& (UNUTES

Number Per Cent Number Number Per Cent

| “4 Az Zs) 2\ 2) 49\ 0.0] 53

Z| /| 2164 27 | 27 fl Zz | 5.9 22
: 2\_pleo| aol oo /|_ al sl z2| aol 27!
S-Clouds, Dust, etc. Z| Oi GIeA9| 0.0| BO 4 -2}.2 1281 ect eet
G-insuftic. info. /| 2) 427 00 | 77 ZZ | at sl vz aolyz7!
uncon 7| p| #\22/[ 0.0[22/ 12| ol 7e| os. 7
$-Other 2 17| 0.0\727 .5| 0.0] UZ, Z| al vie 29
Total “| 21 PMY EY 0 ZIZZQIWA BS 10, f 166. B/| FIPZAY

Evaluation
0-Balloon
1-Astronomical
2-Aircraft
3-Light Phenom.
4-Birds

$-Clouds, Dust, etc.
‘G-insuftic. info,
7-Psychological

SEPTELIMES Chrosee NovEpaeke ECE MBE A

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent
Evaluation | Gevtain'| Ocubifull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubthut] Total [Certain] Doubtad] Total [certain | Doubtiull Total |Certain| Doubtiul] Total
L-Astronomical /| 2|22{ 2.2 Ao Z| Z2lao g. LZ \0

healer VAWAUEE TIE 4{ 4 AVAL Sars Sl 4lesizz

3-Light Phenom, o 2A0.°\a0] og | glae} 2010.0 Z\_ 2| ol 20\a0

Birds 2 0.0] O.ala.o| zl g 2|00|0.0 |0.0 . (2 Z| ga\| 0.0| o.0
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 2| 2\99| 201008 vl 2| aldol ooloe 1A 2\ ge! ploole.old.o

S-Insutfic. Info, 2 2) 39| 2.2 AW AWS : b. A Z| 21 2 0.9
LP sychological 2| 2100) 00} ao] g| al ojae eo ee 4d 2| 2| alaolaoloo
Other 2| 2looleolae ol 7 £5 0oted . 2|_plaol2.ol aa
Tota 231 23| ¥e\s00| soolm 17/71 72 | 70 |v Fit 7] Lal wl zilzzlepel Vl

169

170

ELE OF EVALUATION Ge fll SIGHTWUWCS Fih AtL VERE. BY LWeATiOM DF SIGH TIME
FOR saOwiHs Gf VEAL, __ SK. Te LHIRT. MWUTES |
BMh LEBRUILY LBB LA VLd dt)
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number
Evaluation Certain [Doubtful] Totat [Certain | Doubtful] Total era [Doubt] Tota Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Totat
0-Balloon /\ 7 59\ SII SI Q\| 3)\2.0| Zo \25.0 S| SIB3|2O PT Z2\_@| 2 |
1-Astronomical Z 2 I5.3| A2O\¢ 3 2 2 “7| OO\4.M | O| 4124 QO\tA £\| /\| £
iret Zi sized e922 onan /| z2| zlezlz3lmo 2
stiptPrn | gl al zlesl aoigo| o| 2l daelaciaol al cl elalezlal al el 2
(Bids | zl al elaal aol aol al_2l aleelaolael_2l 2] elazieclael al al 2 i
scious ownet! | ol olasl golnel 2|_ 2| alaslaolaal ol vl 2 2\ 2
Ginsuffie. tnfo. Zi 2| lea eol|faoe] Z| 2! elag 2 2| 2! Olga | +f é
rrycwigial | /| gl /l sa] goles] cl o| vlacl acl acl al ol elao | alael aclao}
kao Z| _2\ ¥\zes5| oolezc| 2] ol zlad gol“7 2 2 2a | 2751 |
Sorhe ‘Lal 7 *7| 20\s9| #| 2| z|zsol aoleal ol 7 2\ el 20 ALY
Tota “| 21 yzilseal glo Lol 2 | p2leeeliezloo. él kaolwol@| yl +4 |e 7) 22 i
ye ALBUS; |
Number Number Per Cent Number | Pesce
Evaluation Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful certain] Doubt] Total [Certain] Doubtfull Total =
0-Baltoon rd $126) £8 15/7. 2
[aston Z 2 7 7 y, Lae
2-Aircratt Ss | 27 [427 |
3-Light Phenom, 2 vA of
s-Birds : a  2.0\ 140.1 2| | 2 Q
2 , ” ZY) aa
G-Insuffic. Info. 2 Z , | Zé BAN BO\BL ‘A Z| eé 44 b
Psychological 2 4 : ly] S\20\AKR | 2 g| 2) 2. } ,
Unknown 2 , , Boloo\ee\/2\| gl /z|e9ido le
9-Other 2 BLISS S| ( |
ae
Total bY? A129 |e 19 3\ 2 .8\ 287 \100. { EG9| GA PINGINILL \100.
[ SEPTEMIAEL Core4e NMQUE IRE LECE/AGER. |
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Per Cent
Evaluation Certain TBousttut Total {Certain} Doubtful] Tota! [Certain Doubtful Total Certain} Doubtful] Total
ea S| 2 6714. zZ 61 Bt GA 2721 92.7 |
1-Astronomical 2\ Zz 67| 470 / Z| 3| 45 | £/1 Zl
2-Aircraft / g . 2, 0} —4 2/ \ 3b
3-Light Phenom, / / #3 z\| 7 B/ \ 26
‘Birds Z| 20 al _ 2 ‘| /100| EL4
S-Clouds, Oustetef Z| 2 GO \2. 2 Z| 2\leal aaia
§-Insuffic. Info. a a0 QO Z g / 0.0 az
PP aycalogical 20 a 2h\lao\ 2| al clad aolaol
&-Unknown A\ @ QO\2SIY F| of F1%6| pal Ze
9-Other Al Z 3\ 37\2¢21 | 2 AOCANBO 0.0| £0
IC 4 |
Total LO \§8.3\ Ue. 7\ 00. £122 OP 5% /\p FAW ARS RAV Lol 16.0 |709. |

TAME Alok LVALUATION OF ALL S/@GHTMES EARS LO SIGHT L
FOR MOWTAS.. GO __VERe QWER _ FHTY

ahi LEBRUME Lthhtdd
a Cent Number Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain st Certain | Doubttul] Total (Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Ooubtrul| Total [Certain | Doubtiul| Total [Certain] Doubthul] Total
0-Baltoon Q2\ /jAOQOC0\°F / 2 , i A 389\ 2.2) 389

L-Astronomical /| 21/09| 76.0) 200 {| 56) C0! Ss.

Aircraft 2a g 0.0 AE ,
BO; OO

Light Phenom. 20| 0.0| 20
-Bisds {21 +22 0.0) 242 x

ae! a0
a0; 00

Evaluation
0-Baltoon
Astronomical
2-Aircraft
'3-Light Phenom.
4-Birds
§-Clouds, Dust, etc.
§-Insuffic. jnfo.
1-Psychological

S352 7

Ss aon /00.

(4 12: 420 —CUSK
£OK OWTUS OF VERC LMMGTION WOT ST OT ED

FEB UBLY ast ee
Aumber Per Cent Number Per Cent Per Cent
Evaluation ertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total fain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful) Tota! [Certain iat Total | Certain | Doubtful TF
O-Baltoon 4i a\ ¥1é2 Z 216.2 L.2|4
1 Astronomical AZ| /lz3las w.plre a4 é z se 27 i

FAWAA:

b 7

2 22 OlA2\ 2.0 am
Z| 212 GO\ Ao) /

2 OO\E ZA

2
y, | Zo! 21-9142
al lad | oO D
ret alee
o| 2
ra

eae sat a
Oldgdlaszigael el 7i\ Lb

2 2
25| 7 [e¥¢lyeesizes loo 148! 7716 S5| x3 222 boo. Is ¥

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Total {Certain| Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful Total

Certain} Doubtful Total Doubtful | Total
Ss ¥| 7 8 g
ary | F | /7 WAVE

Total {Certain} Doubtful

(0-Balloon
1-Astronomical

es

[4 LGM,

Le

SS [ss NS
iy
8
N

DECEIIBER.

Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful Total btful | Total

0-Batloon Z [Heleal 22 a
[Astro 6| 74
p-Airerat f vA
3-Light Phenom, 212.
Birds 2 2
5-Clouds, Oust, etc. ? | |

172

TELE AMO LVALUBTIOW GF WNIT. SIGHTINGS  fCR Alt YEARS BY BUeSTION LF SI@HTWMG
FOR MOWTHS. GE VER, EWE SECONWOS, Ge _2&ss
AanvARY LEBRUAR Maker APRIL
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Rumber Pet Cent
Evaluation Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful} Tota! $Certain [ Doubtful Doubtful | Total Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain | Doubtful! Total [Certain | Doubttul] Total [ Certain |Doubtful | Tota
O-Baltoon 2\|_ 2| @lea caea 2| 2 00\ 001 2 VAVAGCAWAG Z £3| 20\ 62
L-Astronomicai 91 /ENZOO| CO0\MDA 2 60.0\F94 YF 6| /O\ZZ S150 0 gis] 2 | og | ¢ laa ao l@ol
2-Aiscratt Paps olastaciag Z| 0 2o|eol gl ol 2 sata 2 _/| 2 £7| 2018
3-Light Phenom, 2 nolodl2 2\ oO 0.0| 201 2 2| P\22a\ eoloo 2| P1272 2
4-Birds ol oa eA oolo2\ ol 2 g0\a0} p\ o| elaol|aviae\ ¢g\ 7 i 20\ £3 \ §
Kclouds, Ostet] 7) 21 Cl asl O2igal ol @ 0.0| ao 2 2| el dol eo\leo| 2| 2 pet actactae
Ginsuffie, info. 2| O|20 22, Go! 2 A) Oo) 0.0} 0.0) / Ol /\f3\ Gol LV o\/ Z| Boles
21 /\l\47 Gol 4 2 o| ol ol 2.0 aot 2 2! Sl¢0| Zolgel g| 2 2A. QO'\OO
#nkaown /|2l Zleéezl aol ae 01 0.0| 0.0|d0 2| ¢i¢sloolgsl 2t el 2le7 ao
aa 2A b747| / al flaalao a0| 9 abe | ee pAL2\_2\| 2 YLe, 26 20
j__Tota 5| /0| /sle te Z| _ Gl /olwoléoolwe.| el 6] velkedaovoa /|2l77! 22

Total | Certain Doubtful Total [Certain
O10.0| o.o0lo0| +

r Number
Evaluation Certain Doubtful] Total {Cestain| Doudttul} Total Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain] Doubtful
0-Balloon 2 A
1-Astronomical ZL /
2-Aircraft vA Zz
[Light Phenom. o
4-Birds A A
[S-Clouts, Dust, ete. iA 2
-Insuftic. tnfo, Zz oO
|7-Psychological ol o
[Punto Z A
S-Other Ad /
Total Z| 2O| $0.0) 20.0//00, 5 /F7

173

TABLE A ldl EWALUATION. OF LNT SIGHTINGS FOR ALL YERRS 8Y LATION EF SIGHT MG

FOR “OWTHS GE Vege , SIX 70 7EW SECOWDS
Sanuphy _ LEBRUARY het. PP
Rumber Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number
Evaluation | Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Boob] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Ooubttul| Total oertain [Doubttul] Total [Certain | Doutthul| Total [Certsin | Doubthul] Total | Certain |Dochth | Total
[0-Batoon Z| 2 Of 090 00 2 A a| O| 40} 6.0\0.0] 9 Z\ O| 00 avlao ga} O1 20} 20| 00
| Astronomical /\ fl: 2| 1 |1004 a0lwoq /| pl /lz00o| aelzod 2| 2 .
Daircratt 2\f Z| 0} 20| 0° Z| al sizeol oo zeal 2. /\_3 j4z.2\ 1-1 [33.3
3-Light Phenom. 2 2 2| O\|00\ 0.0 2| 92| Pl o00\0.0|ca0] Z| gl Ol oo
Birds A 2 2\.0| eo| 00 p| Zi al ool 2o[aof yl | 2
S-Clouds, Dust et] 7] Z| o|00| 0.0 2|2| 9| aq colo gl plo
Ginsuffic, info. VA O| 9] ool 9.0| o. Q| Oo) P1490 eoloe /| gl s/s
7-Psychotogical “| o 2\ O| 00| 0.0/0. Z2\ 2 ao eol|aol vl o| a
&- Unknown A [2] 21 2c acted g| slecc| oolsod 7| p| 2
3.0ther gl 2 2 eee go 0c aojaol pl gl Oo
Total 3il2 Tf | OL 7 loco] 0.0 |ro0.[ 5 | O| S$ \rocal 9920.) Z| /

Swe

Per Cent

Number

Number Per Cent

Number

174

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful} Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain} Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful} Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total |Cestain| Doubtful] Total {Certain} Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Balloon 2 700| 0.0| /0.0| a Q|/ 1 s6| CASS 2 41291 00| 291 D| #| 3Bloao0\w/\| W/
Astronomical 200| 0.0|z00 FAWZ 169 | 56.6 é fi lz22
2-Aitcraft 10,0 | 20.0) Q 3147) 00 | 4. s| 7
3-Light Phenom, f00| 70 9\| | /(00O| sé| 5. 2\ oOo
4-Birds 20! 2d 2 2 O|0C0| 20| 20 2 2
5-Clouds, Dust, ete. CAO"N 2| O1A0| O0O\|A01 o 2

ones Z| Q\ e€ly4/ a 2
20,20 g| pp] olao| 00 ool e 2
2204 | 2 56[ 00| £6 2
/0 ¥0.0| 20.0 100.4 /0\ 8 18 l\sralWylolZ26l 7 lssilWvzlw7lal rel 2 l|e7l oes 2.31 o
SEPTEM BEL LrQree _ MOVE hee Decepea
Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtfull Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Baltoon 7 leo e2| fo p| pl oled acoleaol pl pl Olecol coled yl gl °| aalaolad
L-Astronomical JF |200! 70.0|70.0 £| 7\KER IZF|77 Q| 3 150| 9.0750) 2| 2| 2| 20° s006| 000
2-ircrat giz] 2loolzodzoo pi p!l ojos aol aol gl gl of] 40] aol ao py) gl Oladl acdao
j3-Light Phenom. Z| 2) ol|4o| ooloo| Z| gl Olodooaol pl g| e{E0 20)0g gl P| O|anaelaad
Birds Hj /\| 410.9 70.0\70.0] 0 2\|0\90 00|/ 04 pi g| eladaagaq yi 7| O| 0o| a0|a0
[s-ctouds, Dust, ete. 7 ole 0.clao| p 2 |aolaclaol p[ pl el aa aoe yi plol eo! ooldo
éhoutticn. | 21 7] 0 |aclo.cload o| o|o laa eolaol co! gl oleol aolee pl elo
rrxeeoie | | | Olae adioo| g| a] elao| aolaol g| J| ol aol aojad gi g| ol aa dolao
Unknown J|_ a= |ga0\ 0.0lza0] 2] | @ lezzelo.olze2| /| 2! 7 lesel oolzsal | a| 0 0.0|0.0
fame 2| 2| clod aol ad vl zlolee cooled zl al alae acted Z| 2lolaalaclae

Total 5 /0|s050.0¥0. | 6| 3 | 7 (667/323 |10¢.] | O}| Alas a0 |jeo4 O| 2 | 2 {0.0 |/e00} 100,

THBLE & SUH LL VE, 7,
Foe OWN TES. 7 Ak £4 oe 70 THTY ___ SECOWDS.
[| / ERLUAL | dees
came esa roar fea oo oar foam +a oR Dt Toial ra ar Total = Total | Certain a
[Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtul| Total |
-Astononical Ma acen + ol Lsad ae f4 212 ae 2040
anc | Z| 2 al ad aolzol 2\_+\sod Zalse 0 FAVA Ae avn
nigren | ol 2| gif aogal al cl sled ad dad al-alalad 20\ ao y, | fe 22
f-Birds Z| ol aladzclead 2 2| vlad zed a2 aloe\e2\ae\ /\_ 2] 22147]
Serr Ere reer rEE ree
cmuficee. | ol J| gl ga odizad gl 2! aigd aciad ail 2 Q0|\20\20\ ol al elaal aalecdl
reyonia | 2) 2! glad aolod 2| 2| alead aolgel gl gl olgolagiaa el cl Aaol aolad
Scknown Z| al alad 20\ 20 2\_ el ala AAA yA 2 VIA T: o| 2\aol ze lad
2|_ ol alad 20\ a2 @) 2 alae ae \ael s é 34 _/| 2| -| caagl| 27
& £\szzi47\wo.| Z| 2 ma o0\Wa\ ¥\ 7) r\ae3t\oa\;2| 2l/slpolpole |
2 ye Joey Abeysr
Number Per Cent Number | Percent | Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation [Certain eT ra Dowbtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Tota [Certain] Doobtful| Total [Certain] Doubtful] Tota | Certan| Ooubttul Total] Certain | Doubtful | Total
Cat beziae i at Aestadleel sl at ale eile
www ZO | 2! sl sal zgl-z7 p22 cates Zl Z
2-piveraft sl 2! zlaed 1 8lyr2 D AMZ,
Hip eee 2 ZO\OAQ\IOD | 2) 2 P\G2\ O2\0 Q2\| 2 a\ gal 2olao La A
oi 4 20 l4zl 2! al ozolazelad al 2 sl ad valanl lol cal cola lao
5-Clouds, Oust, ete. i zZ rS 20 | 2oloa| 2 [2] clad 22\ a0! @i 2\ 2 22007124 2) al eleelaalad|
6-Insuffic, info. _ \z.7| ed (4 slitet alee} 2: 9\|¢/ G/L Zz of £7|Q0| 57
EPsychologicat Z 4 Ar AAQO\ Z| O| Clgel|aaZa v| Z| élsey §/\ gi 2! Z@liga\a2\2o
Unknown no| Zolmo| 7) 2 fie aad |_2@| /s|a@3|po0\w@A gl al gleszl poles.
Sc pole7) al 2 ian ‘|_ al /liae 2 PAWL,
Total -stedeza (0. | 7? a halZ 279 GEINFLS |p} 23\ (2 |Z S166 ALS 3 00.

[ SEPTEMBER LECEMIBER.
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful Doubtful] Total @Certain| Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
mr eriarecy eel soles ese
1-Astronomical Ga 2 FI\Bal2 25.0
2-Aircraft ZF E32 ise 533
3-Light Phenom. 3 - LD BON 1) 2) YEE ld | PI\~AIA DIA?
Binds a|_o1 2 ew 2| elacl col po
S-Clouds, Ousted | | 1g L271 2 O| PI\ZA BAGO
Gnsuffic. nfo zi giz | Zo\33] 7 2\ 2\aelpo\ae
[nPsyetlogi a Ss | 2016.7] 2 2\| ?|\02°\p2\ia0
Unknow 2) o\lad\ aol gol 7 ol zlzz7l oe
Other a | eleolaclaol 2 2 £2| 20| 72
Total Bl 7 el ee7l %. ete 5 | /Z\56.3| 7 \o

175

i. Z (WES £ie Alt. YEARS BY QRATIOW DE SIGHTING
TAME TY QUE. Q SUNTY SECOWOS

LER EL AP
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Total Certain [Doubt certain | Doubttul | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Ooubtfulf Total [ Certain [Doubtful [Total
2\ alaolaviaal 2 a ‘\wslaolwA ol 7 7laele2l cs

oi /

fe

QIGVIANBP
SAS

N
S
St
Bt
N
A
A
Ss

Number Per Cent Per Cant
Evaluation in | Doubtful Total Certain Doubtful Ooubtful
0-Batloon
LAstronomical ed |
2-Aircraft

'3-Light Phenom.
[ea tds
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

Ginsuffic. into,

T-Psychological

&Unknown

9-Other 7 2 ) )
Total i [ +

wol22| wole2\ee7 7\ yo.
Number

Evaluation Certain fain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful

L-Astronomical ‘ A G Z|

2-Aircraft 2 Z| f ZF/\| 7 28 / / Ce

3-Light Phenom, 7 2 2

4-Birds A

5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 2h et

Ginsutfic, tnfo, J 2

7-Psychotogical , ) 22) O

8 Unknown J| 2 4 2 4 2a D

Teta Z .£ Wo, 4 0. , AW

176

TABLE AUL EVALUATION GE WNIT SIGHTINGS £, MEPS f/ WILL
FOE MOUTHS OF YEPE , SH, ZY WL 2 LAMWLT ES.
| Sanvpk LEBRUARY. SYA LH. _ ALK Z
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent _Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtfut] Totat {Certain | Doubttul] Total [Certain a Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | ts Total
F-Astrenomical A 2\200 20 20 2 y /\ae| @/ | a@/| 2| 2 o|ao ad 2.0
ZAincratt z2| 7 100 |Z00 2 ol @\ 44 aolezi z| Zz S | 91491 77 127% |
puigt ren | ol al oalzol aol ae ATAVAPrAr) WA 2| 2100 a ool
{Birds 2\|_a| al 2a aale 2\| ClZ0| Zle@e| alo
Serio sere
é-Insuffic. info. /|.2 ; 20 2|g24 DOE. 2\ 2
Psychological aaa aa 22 et ) Aas VAN
S-Unknowe 2 7 a a2ye0 3 aye 2ol73| z| ale

§02\20.2 00. aI

z

E MEGUST
Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number . Per Cent
Evaluation Total Certain] Doubthul] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total (certain | Ooubtfull Total [Certain Al Total Certain} Doubtful Total } Certain | Doubtful | Total
E 24 49lo3| | 71 ¥lag ot ma
290\_s|_ Y\_ 2722 128\ ual 20|\ ¢\ sels oelA vel 7 oS fe |
201 g| gl oleoleolaol Zi /| 71¢sl agi 53] ol 7| 3
00 2| 2\O\|e@0/00\00] pl 2] Of} Geoloelaal pl o| 0
S-Clouds, Dust, etc. 2.0 | 0.0 ae O| 0 |00| 0e|40] 9 2\|92
G-Insuttic, Info, 00/29| 2| 9) O100|0.0|0.0} /Z o| 3?
(AGE FA, O| G1O0|0.0\oo] 2 | 9
Oo ad eet Zl ae LY | 28 VA:
0.0\ Zz S| O| Sl[azloclest #7 Gl <
2.3 Yoo |2R2| 7 \|27 424 / \oa \F

Evaluation
0-Balloon
1-Astronamical

TBMLE AL, £, FLUE eS. 1), SLGH TIME
Fae QU TAs LOE CLITA —SLh 72 TWAT AVIMETE S
yuiak Bese MALL ALR L
Number Per Cent Muraber Per Cent Number Per Cent , Number Per Cent
Certain | Doubtiul| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Ooubiful | Total in [Doubtful| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful [Total
/ 72 aa 278 “21 23| zz\4zel 2| ol ol oo 2olao
g EOE al /197\| go LA | 2\ /\ gel eo| &7 a 254 29 ing
/ /\yV\ 2 2\ aol Zl az 3 g3| 4zleol ¢| ol ¢[s8| colms|
| al 2 r 23 20|00\ gl al olzal golaa\ | al el 2 2 | 2} 35 egi2e
g\_a| eled aoleol gl al olgalagelaol al 2! of 22 00] ao al o| ao aelao
a|_a| ol aa ao eet 2} Ohad dba 2|_ 2| olaa| 2e| a4 24 21 201 acl ae
2| e| ol2o| aolool oly 2010 2-2, Gadael ae AWAUs0-720 24
Pl al faz eal zA al al olzelacteel al o| efool odaq pl ol elee|eclaal
| | al ¥[ ze eolws] zi al 2ed zolez! pap 2} Smet 20 Het ot Wel 22 he
DAWARIP7Z9 207 Rie on 2 | 2. 00] 20
(3\wol 9\|_z2] W\esiezlwl ¢ | 2.3 VAWZAVUCLAVZA
WE Ly ALEUST
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Pes Cent Number Per Cent
Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain] Doubtful! Total {Certain| Doubifull Total | Certain] Ooubiful] Total scertain asta Certain { Doubtful] Tota! Doubtful sated wz

Z/ “4 AWARE WE aad (Z| BO Mea idT

| 59| 23 a 2} 2
dl al a acer rand é7|ng LZ? wr
Z FAVA Za) ao
wire

2) 21 9|Aa\ao 2a 0.0| 20
y gi s\belesled 2 ieee
ie 2\l6 |/23|_0.0 a 20 7
2\i/ les Are 0.0 1
Z| a| 22 2 Set ae She 24 a0 Pi
MALMVAALY] S133las| 4s | 4 YAAVAME?
3f 371828\ 4-201 73) 27|/20|775|22.5|o |S? = 8714781 Z22|/00.
MAVE BEM.
Number Pes Cent
Evaluation ertain | Doubtful] Total |Certain| Doubtful! Total | Certai
0-Balloon 6| S729 \26/
LAstronomical Ss is VALHES
2-Aircraft Kg 20| 20] di I,

178

m SZ (4
Z, BA LYE L MLCT LOL ST
| _timter_ | —Perct_ unter =| Percent umber, | Parco
in [Doubtful [ Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtiut | Total [Certain | Doubthit] Total [Certain [ Coubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful [Total |
| al /\sad zoleol zl | Zio zoo 7| ol slee3\ 20\z27
| al viwd aolsel »| 2! / 20d anl2oo 2| al 2izezizo
| 2! _alaol zelacl al al eladaolael_ zl vl -laelacwd
| alacl aolael | 2! oleclaolacl zl al elaelaclao|
Chad asta 2 212012 la2\_2! a} bad 2eiae)
2420 | 0 eol 2) 2 210 DO\QO' O| 2 APA 2

01|122 | 20a An Cipe\ool Zi_a\/

2lael ae 201 o| 2 AV I. 2\_ 2!| pléalaoleo

y, ao |ao ol z a|_zlezz| aelzzz|

| ol Q20\| A0 Z, 2 QOY OD A olae\aoalne|

2 |wedao VARAWARANZNAAVA

Certain

Wav E tA gE. LDECELIE ER

Per Cent Number Per Cent
Total {Certain | Doubtful} Total Certain] Doubtful Total Doubtful ; Total
CleaaZidg\aa| A 21 PC laei2ag|ag
4lgal gsizes|_/7| 7] z 2.
lé7 | 43|Go| al ol aloe laelao

3-Light Phenon, AGO|O0\fgo\ Zi 2|l Clagiaaila

t-Birds 2IC2| G2|\A0| Z| Ol a ee LO\D2
5-Clouds, Dust, ete. a\aa\ 20\20\ 2| 2\ elag\ao\od
G-insuffic. Info, 2.2| OO\/82 Lat 2 2d] 20 | 2a
T-Psychological 67|20\|6727|_ Al Ai\AI\OC\aA0\2e0
7 d L£\|Bel 0.0\|f#1 O| O| Pleg\iaol\leo
d d . vA GO\|b67 /\ 2 G5 OO | £58
os zckat te leec
O\%00\ M0\Vea\ | ¥ | sles A7\wal 2) 7 | 7 a7 FFF loo.

27
A 48.

NS
NI NS SS 8

+ CRA NAKA
YS Q S |S

Evaluation

0-Balteon

2| 2) 7) 8%) gal ssl Zs

]-Astronomical

AVASEM Bed

f avn

EEE

Ginsuffic. info,

Psychological

26
vA GO 2a 4
cola

Meataclaa

2

&-Unknown

A

9-Other

2P| QE DO

LIECEIGER,

Number Per Cent

Number Per Cent

Total | Certain | Doubtful } Total

in { Doubttul; Total {Certain | Doubtful; Total FCertain{ Doubth

izslzs 0 Z1£¢| £71 o.
AVE Ltt 42 | 207| 247 \ 409
AUEa it RAPRIEZAY,
PILQOI\ ODIO fi 2 QI BI\|LO
Lia AP\B.21 2 PI\AP\|ZIIG.

y, 20) 22 0

NP QINE QIN)
AERIS

SE RREREREREE

kj
& NE
3 3 WA
z ‘! YY
s 2
i BINSSSNYV SN NI
. Is YN 9 Cy .
YRS a ONERSREEREREE
N Fy g2)UNNaAVUANa da [ys
S i SEAN SAVIN SY [8
| MES NN s y S YN WS NS
IRRAEERGRRGAC IED (RECSEREL SEREGEEEECOEIL
XY
2 Wy QV Y 2 BETS NEN EN EN ENN S|
a SSSA aN ii ;
SSSA BOSS WSSU
AJ QANeqQ & NENKS NEN :
SRERKEEREERER SSEREEEEREES REREREREEE ,
BEly< NEN Q a N y a M4 Q qo
URERERERER SM CBEEEIRRRAKRE RRRRRECET ;
HRERRERERSEES ISEEREEREE ERR ERKEREEREE .
YY SENN IN Y
SRRRRREEREREL S EAISAISSSSSY [8 SSISSSISN IN
We SLAEEEGLI
g
URERRAREE SNS YASSSSSSSIS

SESSEREESEER
SESEEEEERESS

La

SEPTEM SEL

Number

Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain| Doubtful| Total (Certain | Doubtful

Evaluation

10-Balloon

Evaluation

S-Clouds, Dust, etc.
Ginsuffic. thio,

Psychological
Unknown
S-Other
Total

S-Clouds, Dust, etc.

L-Astronomical

4-Birds

ld

TALE AUP EVALUATION GE OBSECT SIGHTINGS. EO, LE Ste C
FoR. OTH S. MEAL, SSX ZO 7EW SECOMOS.

Lewsey FE GRUBRY LIAL. PLL,

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent | Number |
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful | Total Doubthul] Total (Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certan |Doubthul| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain [Doubthut [Total |
ole Zaz 2e\a0\| 2|_2| clas vical 22d} ae 2 aa\_2| | 2} aol aolao
1-Astanamical A ao\l¢s.o\75a +| at sma az\ooa a\/ 2 212} _2tael ae tee
DAineratt o£ nao\wolwaA o| 2| aladzelge al cl aleclgiza + MAPA
stig Prema | | 2 ae 20\a2\ a\ a eleel 2g LA 0| 8| alaaigala@d a el elaa| zeal aol
f-Bieds az! zlaclaeloe\l ol ol zleaelaelae| 2| el ela galaol a) 2| elaelaelaa
SS} SCS led catea ct at ele aetat at See acl ot at oleate
Ginsuffic. tnfo. Z “ZA o| OC| aglaaviGI\GO\ ola | olaal zdl Gol +s al /lzs| aalzs
tPaycetogical | 7 wa 2alaA 2| el alaclaelael 2l el elacl zolael al el zlaclezziac|
toe | | 2l leadaolsa ol o!| plac ala 7! a! 2\Gol aolmd 7| ol 7 |ezs| ao lezs|
por | | | glaclavlae| ol a! alaolaelao| al 2) elaal aelae el al aleolealaa|
| ft | | f ft ft ft ft
ta 2| 2| Y\sdsase l/l ol / lwdachwl¥4\| a aad G0 ol 7\_7\ #¢ \ezst/25 Veo |

i
ey

B

ee a ee a
Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total (Cestain] Doubtful] Total [Certain
ANS A AO\|S9
91/76 | 95.3|52.9

SIZOVULS
L1G!

Ss
DS hy k
N
IS
SRE

SS
S
MS SS

NaN

2
| 121502
2
2

Z

Gtnsuffic. info.
7-Psychological

[Certain | Doubtiuf
Qi f

waar

Waar)
2 o
fl 2
2\ 2
Z| 2

Number

Evaluation

0-Balloon WA /
J-Astronomical Z a
2-Aiscraft oO zZ
3-Light Phenom. 2|_ 2
}4+-Birds oO

5-Ctouds, Oust, etc.
Ginsuffic. info.
7-Psychological
& Unknown

[pote

{Tova

VE ABR PANBSAKA

SARS
ANID

S

Pt f
K

FL A

ESE CT” SIGHTS.

ZO THyeTY SE CANaS

SLONTIME

| tmber Per Cent Number Number Per Cent mike Cent
ee oe ertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubt] Total fcertan [Doubtful = eae Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total
I ACA ~l|_ al ised 20 500 2 Sioa tie
2 A 20) 2o\ 20 2| 2 2 2\_ 2 A Do wi vA ea ZA Ar Z 7 /
|_ al |2l alaal ae aa ra LO 2alaa 2/| ael 27
Ee PEI Eee
WAMAEDYY, wa 20\ 20 22la2|ad
epi EEniern ner
1, Q\Z2\| 22 Zo\ z| 2 QO\| E2\LZED £ 2 Wz
| el alaelaalaol 71s! Macleoolead vo Le La Lael ay
oa aa oe a
WAPAYZWAWA a0\ 60.000 27\27 8 \ 100. |
[ WA Jee
ee Per Cent on
Evaluation Doubtful] Total [Certain{ Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | I Doubtful eta Doubiful | Total |
0-Balloon lest aoteah eet lee Zitat a / 22) 20 | Z0|
L-astononica Slsal7slazl zi 7 g ees é ra WAV AA
2-Aircraft ZA 4 I|Y2 | 29 z| 9
3-Light Phenom. 4 8 2 ae /\ s\2 D | 20 | za]
Birds ? zl 2 ae taelae
S-Clouds, Dust, etc. o A\GZ0\A2\22
G-Insuffic. Info. 4 ol Z 22. 02. Zs
1-Psychological 2. 2)ad. Ao
&Unknown 2 |. A?
S-Other 2 2 Mrarar
Total °2 Z 100.

Evaluation

SEPT EMAER

Number

Per Cent

0-Balloon

1-Astmnomical

2-Aircraft

VavEMGEL

DPECE ABER

Number

Per Cent Number

Per Cent

F-Light Phenom.

Birds

Doubtful} Total |Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful Total [ Doubtful | Total |
Z| lack dla a a4 azlea| zed
sel Ast [ZA
ae 01 2 |

5-Clouds, Oust, etc.

Ginsuffic. Info,

2
2
ZA
o
7-Psychological
[poo 2

NGequqauan

ce z

ve
MARZ TAL
fee
Ave 10 |20

bese

183

os ~
S| ARAB ABAA sis
i RERREEES

Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthul] Total Pa Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain [Doubtful | Tota
3

aaleof y| ol 2\y3|_a| | / [ool g3l gz
200 20leo| pl p| al acl aoloel 7 el clas eetad
yocleool /| el Vfl e.0l”/s| ol | Zla2| gz) v3
aolool pl pla 20\00 [ad]

oO 7| ol 2A ool

20| al al o| dol colao

20| ol ol el ad aclod

22| 2| 2! o| eel aolaa

AVA 66.7
Jledwziaz| al al Olaol[ azojag|

th VE
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Douhtfull Total | Certain? Doubthit] Total
D-Balloon @| 2| O|0O 20|Aa02| gl g| OPO 20\ao| |
Astronomical Z| g| 2 1323) 0.0|333] g 010.01 20° ao| |
| 2| al 2|323| 2olszs| ¢ S| 75\ 260/425] yz |
0100\2.2\0e| g|_ g| clac aad 2
O100| 4920) 2) g}| 080} 02} ao} +
O|00\ 2A a0] o| o| Glao adadt 21
21-2122 0O\0OO| @| oe |0 \|ao| acl|ad| #
2 20| 20a o[ g| cleo aejaol al
o| 2)|223| 0.0] x27 o| 2|z0| 0°lzal ja!

OQ o| 2 AWC) G7,
mi
Total OC! Glad ZO 100,) S

SEPTEMMEL
. Per Cent
Evaluation [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total (Certain| Doubtful] Total

0-Batloon C4008 771, 774 7
L-Astronomical : SUsA 77 \27/| 2
2-Aircratt 17 908) /
3-LLight Phenom, OVO| COP\A0| o
S-Clouds, Dust, etc. 0.0 2
S-Insuffic, info, SNOO\FZT)
T-Psychological O}100| 00|2O 7
8-Unknown 23/|AO\22/| 2
O|P°o| Zoloao

'3-Other
AW AWZAUY ESV ee

(GHIIMW GS $k. Att VENES 8Y La HTiNe
LEB E THLY Ove Qi SITY SECOWD
VLAN: AfRtL
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

SAK

2

AN

Rs

| __Munber | _—Percent

Doubtful | Total ies Ooubtful] Total
ZQVAP a)

NY
laa o| 2\l alae

a
d golzaa\ of al ol

oC

| al ad pol aol
2\|%0\ 2olzal 2) al z|

| zl 2 2 200, 20 eee to\ 2 A ey,

I NSE LEY Yoo,

s
z
3
z

Tota [Catan [Boal [Tota

1

Y
cei

eis

SSSSE
S| a
NS
S

N
NS

S

S

Ni
a9
SIS
SRR

SSASRESE

[Dewi
lad]
Lad

ob hh |
8
S

NI

S
BN
as

IN
SA
N

SSHADA b|

SP
nN
aren
NaN
NUS

D
NIN
NaS
XN

NAS
WINER DS HARK
IRN BQ IH A PS S

APRA ADBAARA
QS IVA iS

Gs 189 FS |S [oa IS OHS
ELS [HID POIQ ADS

N
SS
S
AS
NI

IN
NES:
N

AAA

re
Ss
3

ny
9

o

SS

BSSSSSSSSSS
ehh!

L0ay SUNG
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number
Evaluation _ [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Tota (Certain | Ooubtiul
0-Balloon é A glad f2Z\27Z U4 26 \|2EO|
Astronomical Z| Ss) ABAlY2\42 Z| 124 22
pAirrat 7 25 DE BAN A S\_s\d37\H 3 \2¢6\ 12
3-L ight Phenom. 2. 2| olgdovle Al @!| GIZO\GO\AZel =
2| 2| alagdaalaol al 2! clad aelaol 2
Clouds, Dustetc? | O| ol GO| ZO Z| O| Jigal|agigal 2
ic, tnfo, Z| Al 7s QZOKZ Oi 97| BI20\ Qolaadrz
Z| F| gifeladgigoel a ZIZP\ goel\aol 2
A 2 LEO! QALZEO Z - Z\25.4| 8.0|26.9) ZF
2| 4\¢Z\ o0|ZZ Pa] 407\ go Z
Tota 2Mlmsizezva\2/| 7 lesl\sazscvoal £2
SEPTEMREL Ct rOR Es NOVEMBER LELE [IGE R.
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain [ Doubt Totat Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtfut Total {Certain | Total J Certain} Doubtful Total Doubtful | Total
L-Astronomicat ‘| /| 22 Z| Zz g. /\/Z5|GCoVv25| Ol /| Zi 2a 59
le-irerat Z ‘3129 Ji fF); 6l77 . 2 QIAA QOL 7|22.5 27
3-Light Phenom. A) A 2\ O24 2 og 4 . L125) O0\V: 2 alae 2 24
4-Birds 2\l.2@! @ladaolo Z|. 2 ) CA BOAO Z| Z| CICA 2al2d
S-Clouds, Dust, etc. 77 L2120\ 200r?\l 2 g QO'|LEO Z| 2) 2 a2ela2i2o
[etnsuffc inh. Al al / | n0 2 QO' BONE z Z| zlzsigalug|
7-Psychotogical Z| @| Cl~diadag|2@| 2 QO\GO\00| 2| O| 9 22 acta.
Unicow “ol w aaw#y| 7| 2 160\ 0.0 25.0 2\ 6 \%s8\ a0
S-Other og Z| CIAO 2AlooO 2 DOA\P.O\O2'| 2 2 | 2 aa] 20 Zo
{tot LZ LP SKC 54/0 g sAL6.0V00N 17) \ s7lodz\3s.2\w0 |

va f : as SE,
LOL MONTHS. ME. _VEAL SLL ZO FATS LUWVUTES
_Spnthe BRUAR YR LA MER.
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number - Per Cent Number Per Cent
Certain Doubthul] Total {Certain [ Doubtful Total [Certain { Doubtful | Totat [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubttut | Total [Certain Doubtful] Total [Cestain | Doubtful] Total | Certain ) Doubtful | Total
p44 2 7| £7\5A 2] o| lad Ge 25.0 mat aaaclad 2| a al aal aaa
wl22/\ pe \23/ pe. 4 es] a “ast 4 DaooVo\ 2\| gl zls4 gola7
| 2) | rls 77 aw WN, i 2 Ane. ‘Laat aa 2a\ 908
| 2l_2l clagiaolo!| z 2 ag ze ie 20 aa 2 | zl ael ad 2e
L2} 2} 2} ae \2.0 | 2 AcE 22\22 wl a 21 20| 42\ 2a! 22
soma a ee| [ol 2 laa! 3 4 o a\Ze 20\2 ae AO.
ee Ane 2a) a2 aa\20 ea 2 Fa ig , 2
7-Psychological 4 x 2a Oa ae 2 Lo 2
S0ter Q 2 adlaaa g
ee ee ||
i_Total wAnrA g0\ 25.0 Vao1 6b

7 a 72

IN

Pes Cont Mune | __Percent |
Certain] Doubtial] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain SLA Certain | Doubtul | Total
LZ OZ PLE AVES

g

MES

QAB AAA }

N R RS

NIRA A AS IID A KC
BSSSSSSSNAS

BL bp RisRK ARBRE
SS
SS

INNS
mm
dy

iS
NESSSSNNSSEY |

BAZAA S00 \V00

Ss

Wo (ABER

Number Per Cent
Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain

Evaluation
{0-Balloon

1-Astronomical

BSSSSSNS:
S
N
SN
IN
S
IS
Ny

iS
N
bS
SS
S
S
NS
N

186

Per Cent Number Per Cent | umber Number Per Cent
Evaluation [Doubt] (Certain | Ooubtiul| Total (Certain | Doubthul | Total (Certain | Doubtful] Total [Doubtful] Totat | Certain | Doubttul] (Certain [Ooubtiul] Total | Certain [Doubtful [Total

Bh
Bh
N
QS
NS
S
N
NS
M
M
SS
Ne
NS
SON

NS
S S
S

SRA

20a| g\ 2 ead} aetaet 2 2] 2laela

2 el el og Lad} at 2 2 ao Z0\| 2 2\ao\2
LIZA Q2Pia2e| 2| 2 2O\ OO\8 2 QIZP'| 22\22 @\l /IA4/ Awa
aldoleclae| el 2 2822, 02f 2 ofeach 2\ ol el aol 2
212a 2a] ol oe alaoloel 7| al /|ad ze bea g| z2\e22| goiz22
7 ac\733| o| oO 20\a0\ 2 2} atad bolpol el of al aol aoloo

SIAN Ze Z| 2 mo p0V0A\Y\ 2 WOnDO Wwo\ 8 \ 7 | gl elw/\yoa

Evaluation
0-Balloon
1-Astronosical

'5-Clouds, Oust, etc.

NAD BS ISA [a [es

Gnsuffic. info.
T-Psychological
& Unknown
9-Other

Tota

SEPTE JAG EE Lerogeé
Numbes Per Cent Number Per Cent

Evaluation {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful| Total [Certain | Doubtful| Total 4 Certain
0-Balloon 2| 2 21M 71871 S| /| AiMolaciga 2
Astronomical | 7¢ BAY EVEN /|_ O| (wa goa F
2-Aircsaft Z Zz 2 P| glge
3-Light Phenom. 2 2\. 2| gloo a
(Birds Zi @2 Z| /\@2ag| Z
SCtouds, Oustetal | Z| 2| alZo 2
G-Insuffie. tnfo. 2| @ 2|_ @\| e\laoe Z
1Psychological 2 2| Z| 2lad ¢
B-Unknown Z| 2 S| O| 2 |g J
9-Other Z C| sl /i\aa vA

Total 4 $ N2/ M04 6| Z\ywlwawe\lwo\v

187

TABLE 4la5 EVALUBTLONW GF OBJECT SIGHTIWGS FOR Alt VEARS 4 LATION OQ SIGHTING
ONTHS LF _ VEAR QU ATION NOT STATED
MageH Arr

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Total {Certain | Doubtful | Total (Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain | Doubéful| Total {Certain {Doubtful | Total

“i ALLIANZ
ms B4\72) 2
2212.0 2.0 Q
QALOILOD 22a\_/1
sachet 2

ey

FIPTAPS. Zz
s1aa| gelecl oO

SN
S
N

QK HRA ISA WN

cet Sas
KS

PE. I\0ON 2Y\ MNP EVELN IY \Vo0. | $9

Numbes Per Cent Number Per Cent

| 6 LE ALVE8h 20

/ Ae 2! 7 f
Ss Ae av z
P10 ala 9
7 jake 2 /
22
ase letlao lend Lf

iN

Z| Fle@cl/s LE
Lo 5 4 2 70 \/£5| Do g 19
2E|5.2) 1 AAMANLBND S$} Z

7-Psychological
Unknown

Is

SS

-Peppp east
ey

te N26 ¥00 \/$ 2) 70 \A2\5\ 65 \WONS9| Jb

Evaluation
0-Balloon
1-Astronomical
2-Airceaft

NIS HYP DWASIN

eZ 72 LL BMI, ; re E Aa §
SY SWAPE GF EB IJECT __£CLIPTIC AL
Acs Ephs A 7 LIYI
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total (Certain | Doubtful Total #Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total jCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful | Total
0-Balloon 4 heel 05 let Qe\| 69 B 18 | 25 08 fo.
1L-Astranomical SY NZPA Bi AO|A BN LZ E\FIF NZ IA F66
2Aitetaft £1 ald Zs 22) 7 y 40\6&
Litt Phenom. dé. “Z| Sf ma ue [zz sl SA EY
4-Birds Z LOl 2 fleets
Clouds, Dust, etc Pz lae| as A 2 MAW aes 2 a p
if teh £8 Z Hee
a 4 iad oF Lb A
f a Y, iad 22 4S ZA
2 z 21
_Totat = Yols _ MA 273 \/00 SASH \ 100.

Evaluation
0-Baltoon

1-Astronomical

2-Airceaft

'3-Light Phenom.

4-Birds

'5-Clouds, Dust, etc,

Ginsuffic. info.
7-Psychological
&-Unknown

S-Other

Totat

Evaluation

[0-Balloon

1-Astronomical

2-Aircraft

Ginsuffic. Info.

5-Clouds, Dust, etc.

7-Psychological

&-Unknown

$-Other

Total

1950 LIEL g
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Aumber Per Cent

Evaluation —_[ Ceriain [Ooubtful| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total (Certain | Doubtha| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total foertain [Doubtful] Total {Certain [Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubthul] Total | Certain [Doubttut | Total
O-alleoa 4 _al_ saz zelzy_z Naal¢elve] 7] 7, 2i73 led] |
| }-Astronomtical ol alazl“zis~aA yi o| /IoA Bo |\¥fl 21 7) 2.6) £5 | Gf
2Aircraft @|_2| gilgal\Zaleo) = FA AP BE L9.0 25 fi 42 Sf Ai aS
Light Phenom, Ol C\ Ol@en| 2Ze\lzol 2 24 2 AOR Z| | ZIZCIAL
4-Birds 2|\ 2! OVA 2Pi2A Ol 2| aledevige| 2| Cl 2lZe|22l\eo
scious owstetcl ol ol olazlavlaol al 2l gleeleal oo a ‘lool sl 42 b
G-Insuftic. into. o|/ A DOT 2\ 2\%sizel%sl #| 2 Aes OCO\E2Z
7: Psychologica 2| alec edeceol\|cl_2al eleaeceal el oc VYAG 7a | |
Unknown el? LL" 7 z\227| aole23| vel pl Ze ao |e a
Other Qi) Ss Q.O| 7 Z 2] LZA¢Z&| Zo Z| sis 2\ 47 =
|_Tota | 7) él veiszslezyool yl slalga2adeaslwlnl gz SI 7\Y0 8 \y00

189

Total

“TABLE 1 ee / 2
Wi WAP DE D8. ECT METEOR CL WAL 7
Ait Yepes 949 FZ,
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain Ooubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total {Certain | Doubtful} Total tain Doubthal] Total Certain | Doubtful) Total Doubtful} Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
O-Balloon |_| 22\¢A 2 Z2\ 2A 0e0| 2| pl o ee 221d a\_2 201 2A 20)
1-Astronomical 5s Ba «4 Zz Z| Zz aed QO. O\"0na b g 4 2.0\ SL.2| Lad Pal el zleed celine
HLight Phenon, 2 Aa AMA. Al al 2 a 22] QL al_al_el zal zalae
¢-Birds SL / Tal oloale 2 Z| glo a ssid 2 2 | azelzslZs
IsCiouds, oostete] | / 1 _/| a2lele2 .2|_2| oe! ol aol aela 2l_2| aol aol ad
Jeneuticne. | ol a] 2! Z\_ Qi lao 2 2 2| eleal aol ae 2\ AI 2d ia
peneeneet 42} 2 2 2| 2\ele2d 2 Pa2elael act ad 2 2| 2lZe\ aelae
rome | el ol g 2| 2| clad adel 2) ols lesooest Aol olaclaala
S0ther y, 2-2 2| gle A ol 2! eloolooclool _2l el el ael zolad|

AE? | zl al Zl al Zl

MI
NT
Na
iN
Nl
8
a
NL
a
ANY
wy
Sy
Ry
S
NY
N

ISO Le SZ

Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent umber | Percat
tful

Number

Evaiuation [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful a Doubtfal ertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Doubtiuy Total | Certain | Doubtiui | Total_|
2 Z| al ela ‘eee Qo AL P| |_|
F-Astronomical 2 Va awh | 52 50. AA £ HAL 4 oF Z giziigza [| | | [|]
2-Aireraft gla Z| al al Maat al 22\02 - Z\ 4 Z/ PA mee eee ee
3-Light Phenom, af 2 Z| pla QOO\ 20 f (AV ACAWA SUL | | | f fT
Birds ola OC| gla QO\QO\ 2| 2l @\eel ae eg tt} |
5-Ciouds, Oust, etc. 21 ela 2 Q 2 LO\QAA gl 7 / GO| La Ib = |||
Ginsuffic. info, Zl o Z0| A0\ 7A _ oa el 2 2O0\00 @| Z217/\| 2a\Z/
7-Psychotogical Z| po fe ZO\AO\20\_ Afi 2 20\20\_2| 7 | eleal2 2g —
B-Unknown 21 2 2.0 20| 20| ?| ele THAW 2| 5\7 | £8
9-Other 4i ay OIGZ| 2A, 2A P| ela VAWAA WCAMEAA ZE\00\|00

Total Zla Gab QO \10a) 7 \ 7 an\ fol 1S. L2%¥\ 0

4 2 2, S
GE __OBSEAT LEWTULAR COUIGAL OR TERROROP
g Go 7 C4
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent
Total [Certain] Doubtiul| Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful| Total (Certan| Ooubttuy Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
0-Balloon 2! AZo BO\a\| : ‘| F142) Gs \enF
L-Astronomical LIGZ@A~I KZN LS3

VAU EAT

KAR EAB AD A,

2122 ea}ee| 2
QIBA LEAP
2\20| 22\2P7!1 2

—Y f0.6| pele

72 GF fll SIGHTINGS £OR ALL VEARS.
WY SHAP QE OBIECT FLAIGE
Att Yess SF LISS LIYI
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful f Total Certain Ooubtfui] Totat Certain | Doubtful Tota! [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total |Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain ] Doubtful] Total | Certain [Doubtful [Tota
(0-Balloon FA 4 é#| 4 2 3\Za\FFZ1 Ol 2 we =| 2ACA O| 2 AlaZ\22\2Z0
Astronomical ZO\ CEL LANKL2|2E5|G4A _§ 4 = LLA SLY TU:
2Aircrattg Eat aleal 2a 2aA_o| 7| /laol aelsal 7 ee, 1 ib
Light Phenom. AD 7 O\Z0\ Ge 2a} ol glace acled vl al aleelee 22
a Bitds PL faal ana el ai op a 2O\ 2A 2\| eo 2| ale ea Z
wes 2} 22, 22! ae 2|2120| 22\24 2| 2 AnMW,
[G-insutic. mts. | 3 tT GOL 2| el20\eZe\2ce| 2) 2 Z| 2 alee
‘tl aol ss 2 2 2| clee 22 2
— a Q5\ DoVoZ: 2 2 2

2 22 ] 2

lsother LEY ZGI\SE

Bees
_Tota La Ei

IE LOSL GSZ

. RRR

O| SVOGLC VO)

0

Per Cent Number Pet Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent
Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain| Doubtful] Total fCertain| Doubtful] Total /Certain| Doubtful] Total (Certain | Doubtful] Total |Cestain| Doubtful! Total [Certain] Doubtful Tota! | Certain | Doubtful | Total
Go\ali\o0\ 2 g| al ae| zelae z| siz |

LE 116 \£2.3) 2| Addvsszd o 75 | 78.
U8 BOVME i] PAV. Lt
Z0| 22\20'| 2 2
Z2\20\aa e124
02, Ano ? o

LO\ LONGO 2

ealea\ac\ o Zz GAZ
£f| aol ssl z el aol awe a9 A2\ag
@0| 22\ea2\ a Z2\227| GO OA g Z2|28

sZ02.9\ 100.1 63\ 20 | ¢%\95 92h an

Evaluation
0-Balloon
1-Astronomical
2-Aircraft
3-Light Phenom.
}4-Birds
'5-Ctouds, Dust, etc.
Ginsuffic. info.
7-Psychological
8-Unknown
9-Other

SAS HORA iy

Total

Number Per Cent Number
ertain | Doubtful } Total fCertain | Doubtful | Total
f| O| Z B2\ hb) 2s

raVC4rA 2 221
2129| Dv | 22
214/ | GO\F/ 2
Pigoia?glaol ¢
6 1277| Za \erzl 8
ZIG GOSS) &

Evaluation
O-Balloon

1-Astronomical
2-Aircratt

SB

INN

RE SPH OP REL

18} ZWEI oO NIA FB \/ 926981902 \/oo.

191

ZB a / LER Ate VYEAES___
BY SHAPE. GE O8 E2210 a
_ Ate BRS 7 LILLE LILI
Aumber Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Cestain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total certain [Doubt Total [Certain Doubitul] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain [Doubtful | Total
0-Baltoon YAW 61ELAU A elas S| 2 $6\2O\%6| Z| F| le la wn Z| 2) ely a4
| -Astronomical SA AL 272\ (2.6/0.5 \22.9) 9) o| e291 27 |eeal (2 “e 4 zu Ar SAW LAR PAV CRE CAL 24
2 Aircratt 44 22d ee Mh ae ZIU-9I4A9 |ZF) 6 g, £7) 7| Fl /Z2|42\¢5 0
sign Prem. | 7g] 7s /5\ 72 \2. ol zl¢gidelzeel 2 21 Heelé ol zleeal gael ae
-Birds Z dalazlaz aS al elaelaclee| ai g pcb fat
S-Clouds, Dust, ete. NO\D2'NAZ 2 o 2|\2O|BO\2P| O 2 2 22 ZO
Glasuic. fh. 2 al w93\ @ola7 2 usleolwes| ¢ 2 2 CAV) 22 ize
Psychologica S| 2s| pal a7i20 AN3g\2¢\7e] | y,
B Unknown Z| o\220\85\20V85| &| 2 | & Sel 202 eel 7 2 Zz 13 oo a
(| ¥2\29| a7\Ze\|/2| al yelzsao |a/ 2 2| S127 \|2e
4

Total 823 | $6 7\VIPOVGPZ\ IOS | 100. 5] 7 (EZ YEE Yoo 2\ so|W2|s 4 Yéla@

LEEO
Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Ooubttul] Total |Certain| Doubttul) Total §Certain Certain { Doubtful | Total
0-Bailoon 2 f
1-Astronomical 10
2-Aircraft w/A zZ
3-Light Phenom. AZ
+-Birds AV,
Ico Dust, etc. oO
Gtnsuffic. tnfo. 2
7-Psychological ‘7
& Unknown 2
9-Other z
| Total
TABLE ALS $Y
Number
Evaluation Certain i Total | Certain} Dowbtfull Total
8-Batloon FS z oO | Z oO | vA
1-Astronomical 3z 4 o o / /
2-Aircraft 2/ Zz S| 2 vA cd
3-Light Phesom, Zi / Z\. Hd 2
4-Birds 2 o 2 2| 2 2
5-Clouds, Oust, ete. ZL 2 Z| ¢ go
GInsuffic. info, a) Li Zz 2 z
[7-Psyeologcal 7] 2 o /
8-Unknown 37| @ / A a &
9-Other L / o oO
[ott ET, z ae
LIEO
Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful| Total [Certain | Doubtful ertain Certain [Doubttui | Total
O-Balloon [44 LO HO' 2
1-Astronomical 2 4 ¢e4
2-Aircratt oO 2O0\ GO\OO' =
Light Phenom, A 202 0O\00\' 2
4-Birds [A 2 OOQ\OOG|OO| 2
S-Clouds, Dust ete} | 2O0\ 00\001 2
e-tnsuttic. info /|_@ QO\tt/ 2
7-Psychological G\ 0 LQ\|OP |\00 2
8-Unknown Sila SZZ3\ BO #40
‘la (HMA Laz Z

Per Cent

Doubtful]

SAVPWSIS

Ss

DSS SSSSLNG NGINGNEING

Per Cent

Doubtful]

Totat

Total {Certain | Doubtful

7A aA

273

VEG

2

20

ai

a0

Lee
LO

LO

17

dL

We

SIS E RS [fo fos

Doubtful

‘ SISO LIST
Number Per Cent

Per Cent

Evaluation {Certain [ Doubtfull Total [Certain | Doubtiul] Total [Certain
8-Betloon 7, AVAAWAAW TE
Astronomical g Z\400| w.0| £0
2-Aircraft 2 7238\ OF | 63
Birds 2| 2|l agIlaaAi Zl ee
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. ral al ol 2O\0.0| 2.0
1-Psychological | 2| pl@2\geo\go
8-Unknown me Oly aE a7
8-Other +4 o AWA LDIOO
Total WA 2 | LF\920\20 0\100
TA é. 77
BY SHAPE DE ELT
2s 96,
Per Cent Number Pes Cent
Evaluation {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful Total { Certain
Balloon (2 &é\/7é| o| ol o rales Siz
[Astonia lA golee| 7 zZ S| 7 \22
Psaicratt ener at oe} ted s
Birds , 2 a} .2}ae 202
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. Z8\ 2| 2
G-Insutfic. info. 40 Maal ed 2 ol al
22A\231 ol io
ws aelea7| 2) ol z
23 2|_2
tool 3

La50 LISS LIED
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Evatuation Certain | Doubtful} Total {Certain | Doubtful) Total [Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total tain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtfull Total [Certain [Doubtful | Total
O-Batloon 6 ct L\VE4eo\¢2) |. ol #|43| goalWs\z20| “7\ ¢3\/2ol Ze Ve
I-Astronomicat zl 7| ¢élgsl zigvzl /| # LG VLE BVOTL 7 2LVOZ\ 2.2 o£
2aiterat U2 Yi 41 elMal Xs less Z| 2 2b\ (2723
Light Phenom. GOA 2202 glo Z2O\~o| “A #| 7 2Y\ /Ia
4-Birds Q 2122 2O AVY AGCHAWA?) zZ 2 LZ
S-Clouds, Dust et} 7] 7 10| BAIA! 2 2\18202\22 tae Z| 7) 4iaz2 42
Susie | 71 o | % |1Z/| el gs) Z| oO] 2 Zo\8s\ ¢| oa| plsy Ex
7-Psychological e| o| G120| 20\20| 2| 2\lea QiQ0| 6] 2 621 %¢|827 | Ze
Unknown Slo|lslsez 6.2) 5 S\ZPS| 2o\Z88) 72| ol Poly 20 \L/.
‘Other gi 2{| alae Zz Z2l@s|\20\%s| s| 2! 7IZA|/42\¢2

Total 7 |FONL1 3 | 0a VARTA Ss |e 669 | Z27 oo.

195

fPsreotoion | A/ |g |
ome Leto

22ile9| £1 o

L OF C@Z__ S/GATIW CES FOP Alt VEAOS
g AL QE OBIE A FLEIPT IEA
| Att YEARS ? _LES§ LIS 3
Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Cestain | Doubtful] Total (Certain [Doubthul| Total (Certain | Doubtful] Total gCertain | Doubtful] Total | Certain [Doubtful | Total
[oan “3| gsi blos| Sale sl ol silva eolzal «4 AL S1Y¢\,2 lee
"Astronomical 161 atl d Ke lie9\ 9] A _zi zl % Ve £\ Ze we) 3 GS\HO WAS
Aircraft 28 2t|WgiezN (| | 2leNz 24 12] 85 z s FAVFAVAL
Light Peon, Piel 1s|7¥\29\ 21 ol 2lgglael¥r| 2 AWA ace lee.
Birds Y\az7lav 4/4) ol el alael ze z | 227!
pomaoael 2} 2) ted as} oe 2 2\2 “ne
mene. | elo Kel Zs aves] cole 2
Z / “ o
2
o

some 0 |g |
ee ee

alti ast
a

z

Total

le 2/7 W038 Zier

WET

Number

Per Cent

Number

g

Evaluation [Certain

Ooubifull Totat [Certain Doubth:!

Total {Certain} Doubtful

Per Cent
Total

Certain] Doubtful] Total (Certain | Doubtful

S

wo\es\| 7 |v Haze ea eae Le 29/| oa \|s2| 72

'3-Light Phenom.

ede

cee

4-Birds

5-Clouds, Oust, etc.
Ginsuffic. Info.

T-Psychalogical

&-Unknown

LYALLATION GF AB JE ET SO Z EAES
LY HACE GE QBIEET, LQLK ET AU ARAL BET
Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain} Doubtful] Total et ot Total [Certain | Doubtful] Totel [Certain] Doubtful Total Doubtful | Total
0-Balloon S61 Ol 2| oelgaeeleo Z\20\22 20.
sme 22|.a2|20 AANA Z
2-Aireaft 2t\gaaol s| +\| él ey sels b¢| 27
3-Light Phenom. COA AOI\EGO! O| 2| O\ofe| Zeid 2I2ZA|O7\2
{Birds GO\22)\0 O| elo naa 2122 2I22|20\ 2
S-Clouds, Dust, ete. A 9 2OE\ GPA 2| 2| @\aeleeieZe a 2 ZP| 22
-Insuffic. Info. Clol|leléo 26\ 20) YA) L[| QO\ RL
TEP sychalogial al ol! elae| volce| al 2 | alae aclao cana 2 zzlaolzz'
noo S| 015 nd com sl el lesa raeae
Other 2| 0 | elaelaclae| 7| 2| ie celal ele | elacl eles
Total 2 | sad polwol gl 2) /\72d27 3a AWA CAVA
Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total Certain | Doubtful | Total
‘0-Balloon vA o 70

[ l-Astronemical

é VALUATION OF DAJEOT- SIGHTINGS FOR pil VEARS

Li SHALE OE
YEARS

Per Cent

Total  Cestain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful

C-Baltoon

1-Astronomical

ZAircratt

'3-Light Phenom,

4-Birds

Evaluation

Certain Doubt Total [Certain

Evaluation

0-Batloon

Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain { Doubtful] Total FCertain{ Doubtful] Total | Certain] Doubtful

1-Astronomical

2-Aircraft

'3-Light Phenom.

S-Clouds, Dust, etc.

[esuti. Info,

7-Psychological

Evaluation

Per Cent
(Certain | Doubtfal | Total

0-Batloon

1-Astronomical

AIS [NlQ BSS A

es ee ee Per Cent
[ Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Goubthul] Total (Certain | Ooubttul] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain [Ooubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtiul] Total [Certain [Doubtful [Total |
osaon zt at steal zglezt vl al lel zo aq 22 DE,

“el sleledzselzzel pl pl o 20\00\ ol -| s\|aole. zl gz
ol vlaglazi2#) o
ZZ

LD
Q2\Go2\| Gel@al 2

ee ee ee
Total {Ceriain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtil] Tote! [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Ceriain] Doubtful] Total

laal ¢| | Are les |
al al 60a vl 4122 | 290| 2.5 [765]

olaol_zi
eee eer
e [ZA Q12°| 2212.0 9
FAVA WEA 40 oA
cA

ZTLYLG.
SHAPE GF __DaLEET _ HWE R SHAPES

Abt. YERRS. ¢ GS § LJ

T

Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain [ Doubtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful| Total [Certain | Ooubtul] Total [Certain] Doubtful Total [Certain] Doubttul] Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
-Baloon IL t0lsz\k7| a| 2 Alaclagjae AWARAWTAV?: TAW TAN)
pasmmnicas [29179 lvzle slz7izol -| 2| vladwolzad -| ol -lezlaelaz Ol £8 |Z5.
leaient sd 2 | aziss [slasleed al ol al eol aol aol /| ¢ 4.7/2.8 |200 5123 |DS

| al 2 | 2]

| at al

S

isnt Pron | 9! 2/1 sl72| 2g |
Bids | 2z| z| Aas] ag

SRS
SINS

40/4
PiQ2| AP\Gol Ss

S-Clouds, Dust, et] / /i2 la@y| 24 anol 2 Z| 20 ZA pl
G-Insuffic. Info, /G| O\L9 ZZ} ael 27} 2 Qo 2Q1I22| O0\ a0
7-Psychological A, b LO rw [2] 2100 2\ 2
sino ds ol eviz9| golwel 21 o | 2 lua ao wool 2\
Other AZ, | al el atael alec} 2

Taal VA LY Zz FAV

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful Total ertain [Doubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful] Totat [Certain | Doubtful] Total To Tota

sateen ‘| glo lw @| ol #1W3l aalwstzo| pzl z2| ad ze lwal |
FARA HIVE el yl_egas\eel | 9 zoel 22 se yee

A
1-Astronomical #
2-Aircratt ‘ 6 |Z 17 41 1/82 Zz. 2 22\F¢ MAGA BL | 286 ; re
3-Light Phenom, QleliglZe7lari2e| 2 o| gladgeéj\a.o| 7] 2) sIZ7\47)| 38
birds C\lazdzaoe| al gl elagdezlige zla TF —
SPR rieirig ren erin apie eeieicre =
insuffi. io, 13| 2.0\W0 7s | aal\s gl ol glez|golezy | | fT TT]
leele| goal eladzaclacl| zl el 4l ao (29 | |
2 fT
wi yt
it

oe
[Somer Z i, 22 Z| zleslesly] 1 | I
PS a A

199

f= Li la AM
_SPEE 0. SE ORIEL STATIOWALY
[_ ALL Years 7 ¢ GOAL
Number Per Cent

Evaluation Total [Certain | Doubtful ertain [Doubtful] Totat [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain
(O-Balloon goloo| s| vl 4l234 z7lns
1-Astronomical COO MGCL ¢ 40.8| 7. Eva
RAircralt E9100
3-Light Phenom. 9919.0 A
4-Birds Zolog\laol aAwA 9) 2, 2 ,
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. g9g\00 a cst 0.0| 0.9| 0.0 | 2.0!
Ginsuffic Info. ; bogs ) é. GO'00\00 r- 2 SG) G.0 rd | £01 :
7-Psychological fi dL 2o\ Golbo Pa) 4 i Lal
oninow 4 1 20| 0.0\0.0 e| f Al gal.
Other [2013/1 £7 2.0| ¢.0lg.0 4 Z 77 Pho
Total 76 | /20\4/6\Y.2| ah flo.) O| Al zloolaoya.|/0| 3 4\ 23.1 oll s | 19) 251} 600| ¢0.0|/0,|

i ST rd ~

Humber Per Cent wonder | ___ Percent nummer Peco [Percent |

Evaluation [Certain | Doubtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful Total [Certain] Doubthil] Total Doubtful] Total (Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [ Certain | Doubtful | Total |
o| S$ |za\ oolza 2] 3 19.4 ae BL ALLE EBLE | 4
goloo| “| /| «lcal cal alezz| 2/44 ol col/3.0 [| ty

| of ef 0] aol aol aol Zz] 7 r2l agla2/| | {|

| 2) eo] olzel aeleol 2] o| | a0] aol oo} Pf

aul | 2.0| £9] L4} 2} Eb ce) 20 ce pt

| al el olaol gelacol zl i rol sel /2/ 4s! pf fy

ee ee ee eee Pt

7a # yale [ase 97 |s37lzodl294lron aa

ZZ yA Si Man z,
SPEZOS 2 OB ZS LESS HOM WWE HUMLRED SS. £62 AWUe
ALL Years | Z 4 7 LA gag
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Evaluation [Certain] Doubtful] Total as a Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total {certain | Ooubtful| Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtiuy Total | Certain | Doubitul| Total _|
vastononieal 14731 | 2/| £3l/74] | oleol El ar] 1 3132,01 20.0 l2.0|
2-aieratt lato 1231431 791 9/1/20) 2 . 2\ 4 2 Fel

3+Light Phenom, | o| 3! 2120! A Léa r) ge 2; ¢ Pr 2.9) 09
Bids | 4! /| 7L2dla¢l zal o 2.0 ol a ooloo|
Sclods, shee] y~| 21 7120] oe] 27 Pal 2| ol lool oolao|
lennsutic. no. | | of 8tsz| oe] 27] lao | 4| vl ol i ¢ol 0.0/4 0!
1-Psychological al ol 2loel| ae ae 2|_ al 9 oal 20 lao!
E-Unknown 491 2/49 La ee ia 0.0 \0.0 Rs 3/20] 2.2 |2.0!
s-Other J 31 4él¢ 0.0 150.0] / deleelde!

Total /70| 84 664 33.1 | 400 0 0 yao. | 2r\sl.o| 4.0\00,

S
3h
ixd
z

a
Es
3

q
w

je ~
jag | OS | Ele oy

S INA 1s [55 |S r
A sAbbKER BER

S ISS NS NS
1S fo PS Jes PSL Ae
ft A HY Re | oi
SREERERRRRE

FUT TT

bh
SN
is

LLL
BRRRRRREREEE:

£8 EN LLG LA

6S FOR ALL VERARS 4 ad
WLLEO ZO fowe 1,
SS

SSSS5;
ohhh
nents

LARK
Snsas
NaSES

19

NS
Xp
Say
S [a

NS
QS

Is
ana
IS TSS be & Le by 2
D> 1B IS fa &
bv
Sas ss

l

S

Per Cent

Tee ee ed ee

Numb
Evaluation Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] fi [ Total [Certain] Doubthi] Total |
clatand al ol lial aaleda
Z A
a calc A ‘Ls
GE\0.0 og o 2
BOO) & o| eo
2.9 \/9 2 Co] o 2o
ColJZN O| 9/0
¢\ 0012909 ¢| of dL
29\ 29) “A ol / .
a7 fs [#élasl/4 70. [z[ a dl walze oo \i4al 48) 70924 N\702.|

LTT

Tit

F373 LL (E RE. DOT ED
SPEEOS QE __ OG JEETS _ QWEL. LOR HUMOLEO  1UlEs -, MOM
ALL YEARS LG Z2- G Sh,
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number ae
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total {Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtiul| Tota [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Ooubttul Total | Certain | Doubtful] Tota
-Balloon ¢| g/lerl| sal o/ is /|_o zé| Al xl 7] 4ol soolH#ol 2] 7] 7] ool Zs} Zr]
vastomnical | PF | 741/22 1/3./| 29 Zo|_¢ . ait 212 | Jat al Ho lazéo\| J | 25122] ¢¢| 34.81 822)
P-Aireaft 12 #4 [Jac V3.c1 a 7 o| 2 al cal #1 2] sled golool 6] 7/22] 513/471
aight Preom | 7 W124 os| 14 ol 0 0.o\| / tt} te kolfel 2] 2) alec ac ce
Binds rl gal 7lodasalsd el oe oo] 7 2| 24 20|Zo] 2| -| 3124 zrl ¢e¢
o of| col 4 alo 20\ 2 o| Go| a2 22}.2| 0 | @) ee} eet ee
G-Insuffic. info. C4 ol ré|Za mn a Z| oa | 3! eZ, "| fo.6| 2.0 ao | Q 74| 0.0 74
Psychological /o| 09 ol_/ | 24] 2 oleo| aclool v| ol t [ssl eel 4
SUninow /4|_o ladlaz ied o gat | 2 | 1/20] 0.0 |e o Papal 2.2
Other 27| 4 | 3/136 Ont) oe 23.2 /| 2|20l4.0l¢o| 2| o | 2|27l 20129
L | | | ft | ft f fy
Toa 53 8[ 4/2 [Zroly Zlasalaol 3/1 7 [963701764 lwo. 13) | 79 | 0162.01 36.0 |o0.134! 34 | SF [50.01 50.0 [100 |
VEE) SPST LI SR
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain [Goubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [ Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain [Doubtful | Total
Ballon Z ¢ 0.2 /|_ 4) 21245 2.5| sol 46] 2¢| fol 32) ZF | fo
L-Astronomical a2 7] Z152.61 2.51 alo 2k 1914/2. Z 5.6/8 Yt
Aircraft Z| al Clyol vol sce “a 2 sb LSI 3AG | |
SLigt Phenom. fo ol s|2Js1 a0 Pare 0.2| /4 —
¢-Birds 4 Q ol olegdiaeloao 2 o 9.01 O49 |_|
F-Cloots, Dust, et. al e| el eel ae a gal eal 22 [| |
Ginsuttic. lato. ola . , to | , d | | |
L-Psychological o| / é 4 | ft
2 24 [ot
gle £24 |

|-Astronomical

2Aiscratt A

J Light Phenom. 2.01900
|4-Birds 9.2| 6.010,0
5Clouds, Dust, etc. lo | 2ecl golga |
GInsutfic. Info. 21261 8.9|2,0

7-Psychologicat
&-Unknown
S-Other

g

Z Z PT
| __ Perot | __inber | _ mune; | Perce

Number
Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful[ Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total J Certain] Goubiful Total Doubtful | Total
2 elZz Lo g.o| 211 S7
ih

i

Evatuation Certain | Doubtful

Doubtful

0-Balioon

20
Astonia Ly 6 |30.01 da.olée.0 7
[e-mrerat 2

3-Light Phenom.

4-Birds
[SClouds, Oust, etc,
Ginsuffic. Info,

VIH 1S |B R/V 1G

2
3
g
2
og

|7-Psychological
&-Unknown
9-Other

B19 ]o [By [a [0 |S

o
2
g

Total

‘Sa A _aA (e} Fy LL CALS. ZOD
SEL O La QoS LTS SPEEO WE STATED

ao an a
Number Pet Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent | Perce |

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total Doubitull Total {Certain | Coubttul] Total [Certain] Doubtful Certain | Doubtful
0-Balloon fA ors Z. Z. J2

astoronical — L2¢/| “Lo |fo/ £312.02 [Fost
2-Aircratt CARR S| 23 93] 3.71 5
s-Lignt Phew. | 771 72 | 29 4A3

4-Birds §| cl file.

5-Clouds, Dust, etc. /| 3 ¢

G-insutfic. Info, WA go \/7s"
7-Psychological fa fi
&-Unknown 232 _ 2 |232
Other S3| SF | 72

[Total 743| 372\/3/

GL72
Per Cet Percent | _munber__—{ Percent, —tunber_—— [Percent
Evaiuation Certain | Doubtful? Total

/1-Astronomical
2-Aircratt
+Light Phenom,
4-Birds

5Clouds, Dust, etc.
Ginsuffic info.
7-Psychological

Certain | Doubtful] Total Certain
ZA adel a

OI

Certain | Doubtful | Total Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total
2.21 ¢/| 28) 53| Zol 93} zal v4 ——
% Pr

i. SF 7
SPEER GE QBIEELT. ATIOW A
ALL YEARS 4¢7 7 OS LIA ¢9
Number Per Cent Number Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Evaluation Certain [Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubttul] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Tota! [Certain | Doubtful Total | Certain [Doubtful [Total “|
O-Baltoon 2 [4 4-2} facade ce
Astronomical o | S| 5 | yolzzslaze ieee}
2Aircraft a g , A / wt G Raat.
3-Light Phenom. ‘7 lz) », o O14 8.0 l 2.0! ao!
4-Birds o|_o el el el eal oo! oo
5-Ctouds, Dust, etc. oe g o Ol 4oa D)
&Insuffic. Info. O| 2 e| 2
7-Psychotogical ol. o 2 “6| 6.0 ,
FUrknown Z y 9 o Lt | 2.8
$Otner AG 6 2.0| 2a| aol

Total EG \Jo A\SFHMIAG/\(00.| 2| 2 P1667 F3. coal

g — “9 a
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number | Peace
Doubtful] Total [Certain] Ooubthl] Total [Certain | Doubtiul] Total [Certain] Ooubtful] Total =e Total
g 2i0| 0.0 ae 9144/0309] weld _|

3-Light Phenom,

(3) 03 yeel23l zrlasle7

4-Birds

2.0\ 00; Of| o

5-Clouds, Oust, etc.

00| 001 OO| /

Ginsuffic. Info.

[7-Psyebological

&Unknown

S-Other

2\ 0

Q g

ol olool acl onl 7 Hatle

o| 3 bya 0.0 1450 au eles

| oloo| 20 ool F| Zi /AS/ 22) A¢

| Total

Evaiuation

stain | Doubtful] Total

gl 7

9S
Rl ls ls |
x! SS

AO 1S 19 1D IS ly I
019 Io [919 19 Io Is
Sis
fe [a fo

/9fo LOLL PL2 PT
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaltation [Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtul] Tota (Certain | Ooubthd| Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [pertain [Doubthul| Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total (Certain | Ooubthl] Total | Certain [Doubttel | Tota

(Balloon Z i AN63 6A 7 ol /bare oeclerd salazlrsladivweg | | [ it iT |
Astronomical Z\|_e| /|3) ae 2 L\ae \|2Le elé3i¢9ly.aq | | [ [J [|
ZAircsatt lie v3) 20 12, o| (Kfolae £2 9| 171/2.6l4l |__|
pig Piao | ol o| O[ aol aclgol ol o| e| aol ge 3 0 aL Z / |
4-Birds o| o| O46) soioo0) 2| °| 0) Go| ao / 2/1 AFA. Bi
S-Clouds, Duster. ol o 2} o| Alool ao /| 4 2.7} 2.2| 4} 4+ —4—]
G-Insuffic. info, Z\le o| 2°} Pleo|oee ° A2%|o0\74 |
T-Psychological o|o o| °| O|go|eae Cd P A) |_|
8-Unknown él] a Z o|/ 2} 8.0 eis 0.0 d
9-Other f\|o2 el 2 CAVA A / 2.7 A
ee ee _ ||
rata eli 31114 brolarolalsgi Zl /Blezzl3ze@oal [ [| T | tf |

204

i, 18; Fa7A ’
SPEED, CE QWbSEETS QE HUMWOREO Te Lbitle HUwpRlED /YILES FE (LL

Ate Veags ¢? 9¢ LILF
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtfull Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain [Doubtful | Total

Dato | | 4) sl Sol zoolzco £| of 227) aol g
1-Astronomical kt seal 7 a)
F+Light Phenom. 2! aleal ool aa
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. g 9.0| 0.0! 20
Insuffic. Info. g 4860) ce bat
T-Psychological o| ¢@ Gg9|¢
Bunion sla? ee fact
3-0ther | gl aol 0.0| ag!
TY | [| ft
LALO LIST 7
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Per Cent Number. Per Cent

Evaluation Certain Doubtful] Total }Certain| Doubtful; Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain] Doubtful Certain] Doubtful] Total Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total |
L-Astronomical /|. 2 3 fo| Bole >) LF MAWACIVEAA |_|
2-Aircratt G 6129.6) 9.0 Mo | |

6913. 140.
al /| dealects

3-Light Phenom, O|1206] 09!0.6
4-Birds

g

a, P1900! 90;00
'§-Clouds, Dust, etc. o

Wa

6

Qo

Q

20.0! 0.0 20.0
7-Psycholo gical Li¢o og
J.o| 0.0 24D

o

g

o| Z| eel eoloo
Ginsultic, Info. g

go

g

&-Unknown
9-Other

Totat 5° {80.0 | 40.0 | (00.

Evaluation

Certain | Doubtful

dle)

'3-Light Phenom.
4-Birds

S-Unknown
9-Other

LES S
Numbes Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
ertain | Doubtful [ Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain |Doubthul | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total FCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful | Total

o 41 901 34 /¢
-0| 7015465 0.0 lav So | 2¢
6/34] 64-207 é7

\34\ aol sy rl 7)
VAC AAECA o| 2 |

G\ 00| 0.0} 90
O| 8.0; 00 QD ¢

aol slay 6] /|

Evaluation
O-Baltoon
1-Astronomical

BS KH ™ PATO KA,

10 (9 Ig Io

IN WN ISP
be
SS NS
hey be
me
S| is B® |
Q |S
iS S
So] PAIN
5] he |
ans
hag
Ss
S
NY

TALE AIS? EVALUATION ~~ GF TSG eZ) y £, E: ZL,
SPEEOS OF OR IECTS COL - LIKE SPEEDS
Alt YEARS L/9¢2 LOBE. 929
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent
Evaluation Certain | Goubtiul] Total [Certain | Doubttull Total Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubttul] Total [Certain | Doubtfull Total {Certain | Doubtful | Total
O-Balloon 2| R| Zlae /Gis Z| 02| o)d0| 6elee| Z| 2! olacpolacel 4| al 424| 20106
Astronomical a0-4IG, g / |e! 0.0 fool 6h 6A 1\4 63) o| ¢ 4] 8.0 |/a0.0 100.0
2Alrcraft 6| 2| gl¢9 64101 o | elool golaol Ol o | alee wolasl o| e | oleelae lao!
Light Phenom, clea ocecleo| pl oe! eloel eoleo| gle | 2leolaelaa ol el aloe! aeleao!
(Bids | ol , | slosloe lal al ole alo 2.2| 20 | nal Q 0.0| 0a \|00
[scinds, one! | o | /lag Lol 29 ol 2 oleaolaclool o| a A1\09e|\00\ 40 2 2o\logg\|oe
insti. In 14| 20| 74 22 elec! ccelsel ol o | 2leo! eel sa o 00|Qelee
Psychological Z| / 2.0|208| gel ol o | elpelaclecl ola 2\e0.0| G2\ po 2 go|0e|eo|
E-Unknown /§\ 0 | /84s| volvs| ol e | alecleelecl zl o | 2lMilaoles 2 22 | 26 | ac |
Other 3le | slesloelz/| el ole 2|o| olaol aol ad 2.0\0.010,0|

fi | ft

2 / |e! 2olsoo.| 8

ON

= fr 1 37 \/22\ 697| 30.28 | 20 1457114249 a.

LISTS __f
Number Per Cent Number Number Number
Evaluation Certain | Doubitulf Doubtful; Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total }Certain in | Doubtful Doubtful
|0-Balloon o og 2. I9\2.¢e é fo}
1-Astronomical 9 ST Lf 693\ 357 foo 2] 2
2-Aircratt ol oa GO o| 9°
3-Light Phenom, o L o a9 | o| 0
4-Birds ole 00 gio
5-Clouds, Oust, etc. 2) 2 LAA | o|.o
G-Insuffic. Info. olo o.0 /\o
|7-Psychological 9\ oe 6.9 CAR
& Unknown Oo I Oo og alo
9-Other 2] OL 0.9 | o
4
| Total 9| 1” | $1643) 3r7
& BE
SPEEL IOS
ALL YEARS

Number
Evaluation Certain | Doubtfulf Total [Certain | Ooubtfull Total (Certain

0-Balloon 67 49 & 49 7 4
L-Astronomical 2D HAIG fid ke.
2-Aitcratt G2 4 7 7 8.6/7.
;3-Light Phenom, 47\ //

4-Birds 7\
5-Clouds, Oust, etc. Oo | QoQ

Doubtful

fInsuffic. Info. 142 Oo 90 oo
7-Psychological /Aa\| 2 LALOR 8.8
B-Unknown 449\ 0 |e \4é. Oo g [2] ,
9-Other 38 [4 Z ¢g WALA

Total 30 RP Vol 72.3( 277)

LILO

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtfut ertain { Doubtful | Total |Certain | Doubtful | Total

Bate 3 | 711 £3) 3) 3] 1297231 24 of
!]-Astronomical 4| a solzro XH, & [7 aA 4
2-Aircraft 24 /9\22. 3l/?. (A g Lo So?
3 Light Phenom, ol e|loglace|leo| /| /| 2 Ld
4-Birds o | Cleo! G0, ac] o{ ¢| / L¢
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. o Oo lGo| 00 o go og 7.0
Glnsuffic. Into. f le [ar 61 0.0 Al ao lea Go
Tsyctohgiat | 2 | o | o | Gal oe o| /|/4le.o0
B-Lnknown /7\ e L7| 0.0 2 12213/¢| 20
$-Other 4 / iu A 4e g es 2.0
yor $6 \2. 3/27 wal 531 77 170 Ieczi2¢3

(4 Zé: (4 ra és =, TE,
SPEEQ OF CBIEET. STRTIOW AL
g? Ff 3
- = Al <A Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number
Evaluation Certain | Ooubttul] Total [Certain | Doubtfull Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [ Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total rea Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
O-Balloon 62 a2 a9 2 o| 00) 20|a2
1-Astronomical Lh . . IY, a 9.9 \ [00.0 | G0
2Aircratt erin ¢o Ud. do! og OG | 2a
3Light Phenom. | g¢| wv / O 201 og! 2 Go| 09|8¢0
4-Birds , Go| 00\00 wi A, Go| 897| go
5-Clouds, Dust, ete. Z re 2 A o .O| 0.A@log
Ginsuttic no. | Pe] oo | ZF) 79| 22\ 7. Wolg 00| glee
7-Psychological fl /) G7l2é a3! At ol 2 0.0| 20\80
@-Unknown "Sle |v “| Zo S| o| @| e644 4| Adi ae
$Othes 76 | £ 1/F | 3.3! / Z Leal ol] oO Gl00| Boe
|_Total 19183 \S0alwniAZs\|wlolt al Azlaclw tes

Per Cent Per Cent

LPS co

Number Per Cent

Evaluation

Doubtfull Total {Certain} Ooubttul] Total (Certain[ Doubtful] Total

0-Batloon

1-Astronomical

2-Aircratt

ertain | Doubtful| Total {Certain} Doubtful! Total

| ae delat had

Number Per Cent
Certain| Doubtful Total | Certain { Doubtful | Total

'3-Light Phenom.

4-Birds

S-Clouds, Dust, etc.

&Insuffic. Info.
7-Psychological

Tq

&Unknown
9-Other

S jo ® lo 0 & ® HK |g
BMI INH [o WK

as

sla

0
ra
4
{Xfa

0 MILES CEE

TED
LOUK
LL AP
Number Per Cent

[Daub Yea fern [Oot] Total [Certain] Dota] Total [erln| outta Tota | Cerin | Dobtt] Total

ABLE ALO Le £
SHEED, 2 OCBIECTS 4ESS GLY WWE ft
ALL VeARs /9 LIEK
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Ooubttull Total (Certain | Doubtful] Total
pean | al ast ales] 3. 9l977 , daalodd &
1-Astronomical 6! so | 26| £9 6 4 rw al 2]
2-Aircraft La 3
3+Light Phenom. Z 3\| aol /7
Binds 2 | 4|47| a6 |2.3
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. Jif log LZ
GInsuffic. info. oO £ 3.
7-Psychologicat Z g /
b-Uninow Zeb e lac [idl 20
8-the | £1 3 | ee é,
PTT
cree 7 APA
L250
ante _Pes Cent _Per Cent
O-Balloon 7 J? ie 4
1-Astronomical 20
DAircratt DOU7L
Light Phenom, O9O\ 00
4-Birds

$-Clouds, Dust, etc.

7-Psychological

| 2.0 |3s4

BLE. Alel v4 (Or Li S GS LL LE,
SPEEOS AE. OBIELTS Dh, HiUNWOLEO 70 FOUR HiOmMOCED [ULES (FL HOve
Alt YEARS WEE. a¢ SIL
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation [Certain [Houbttul] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total (Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain Ooubthd] Total fcertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doukttul| Total [Certain [Doobtial [Total
[0-Battoon 2 SI1Z8L IG 3.3 f-)
*Astonanca /2| 73 | 25| £01 5494 ol|_ol elgol
| aincrat sJ 3 s4 43 eb Bi ols ed
a! ef O04] ol| 0 Te
HS a 2 O91 6| oO] alge
o (22 q2\ | 0 Yai
a eg rlz tata
lav.) Zl o |S [mol

= 53 a 774

aoe

7-Psychological
‘&-Unknown
9-Other
“Total
SIGHTINGS FOE ft. VEQES GY  REPLETED
WEL £0VR HUNDRED $MtLeS EE Hove
LIA 747
Evaluation Total [Certain

(0-Balloon

2-Aircraft

ALi ight Phenom.

}4-Birds

5-Clouds, Oust, ete.

Ginsuffic. info,

7-Psychological

8-Unknown

9-Other

[ Total

Number 4 2 Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Boubttul in | Doubtful] in | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total
O-Baltoon J o a a
1-Astronomical / g¢ 2.8 7
2-Aitcraft u | ¢| 9 g.
3-Light Phenom. elo 2°
4-Birds [2] ° Te vA
'S-Clouds, Dust, etc. 6 [oe 2°
&Insuffic. info. J | o O.g
7-Psychologicat olole g. 2| ¢¥.
‘§-Unknown VLA ° Go
S-Other E4 2 7.0
|__ Total 25 | (O35 |AF A, £3 \foa

7) 77 ae EVALUBT GE. GB&LECT s ze i. S TED.
SYEEO. OF OBJECTS METEOR ~ LIKE SPEEOS
ALL YEARS 7 ° bf Fae 7
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation [Certain [Doubtful] Total |Certain | Doubthul] Total [Certain] Doubthul] Total | Doubtful] Total [certain [Doubtful] Total [certain | Doubttil) Total a Doubtful
ea earaacedt +t ta at eect et tat aataeles
1 1-Astonomical g r ; |_| |_| ana MAB CSET | 2 | P4 212g 10b.0\400.0|
Light Phewon, |_| | of o| eloolegclool alo | ol esl eelao|
$-Clouds, Dust, etc. \ i | 2! 2\2o loolec| ol o | ol gol el gol
Bint Qt TT Pale | feel aelool ole | elael eal eel
[7-Psyetelogica Vf] ft te [alee ecloc| ol 6 | aleel aol ao!
nivewn [12] 212 4adl eol/dl ol o | al el eel ao}
Sorter | He | Pola | alece|eclece| glo | al aol aclao
| - | ee ee eee
|_Tota Pt als 73 lesslzerlool eo] al 2leelzel pe

A7S 2

Number Per Cent Number
Total tet ot at ol Certain] Doubtfull Total Total
o|eol golael_ al 2 22| 3.0| 20

| 2] ¢)zstazo| voolt3 | 0 | 33 lees /daee2 ||

Evaluation
0-Battoon
1-Astronomical
2-Aircratt
'3-Light Phenom.
4-Birds
Is-Clouds, Dust, etc.
&-Insulfic. Info.
7-Psychological
8-Unknown

| umber | Percent
erat [ovat YoBr | Cen] Ooo] Talal [erin] Over] Toa

s
5
S
2

e js | £
key K,
8 I o

iS
IN . 9

Rs & SINS
© |S PAK %
h S |S [SN [ey [S 1S [9B Io Nilo
S| 19 fo 1S fo [o fa [9 fy Sf

go

CAE
2

A 2.
noe
J J / jj
83

ale,
IN

1 NID

g IF [o 19

SESSSSSSSS905
‘ S Pp
: S 19S Pp p
g IS ps S AR S|
ASN dio : cs

p we IS a
IS PNR IS §
SL RERESR ERE EE

SSL Iukel tets Se is pa
| bp fee KA BS EE

S

BN LG lap) 32 f1 [Z2.71373| 20.

Fert [Doubt] Total [Certain [Ooubtul] Total fCeraie | Doubt] Tota |
7s] 7 | 22l igs) | CT
Rika [Za] | TT
ee es et
[267 As | Z7
| *ole2Z Yot ft Tf

IB. las LLL £4 0° SUBH TIMES. FQ@E | PLL VERRSE
BY LGHT & MESS
Suvedg wr On Miggog uniger oy Arun \Sbneieyt on PLASTER CLIT. OM STONE
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Tota! [Certain | Doubtful | Total gCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful{ Total §Certain Saat Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
Lastomnical | 7 33 (224 EF \98.91 7 (/| 90 9l ol loo io D 2 zi Z as 51
Paireat 7|_ 3| /2| é 3S|U4/ 42 72|/3.9 zh £, 731291 4 A 2 LEIS.
3-Light Phenom. Ol /| 44 goua oe 1G Lb 0 ‘YT 2g JAA oO wwe
Birds | 2| | 20 00] 20 4] BH is Z | 2 2/ J inane
Soinds, dust ete] |_| 41-24 20 Lo 43|_ ooo SSE 2] 33 ae, 4b
iensuticne. | 71 | 7| 46 2d0je a 2a 700| Zolloo 44 §3| Bo £3
fePrtoogit | 21 2] AL 24] 2a Ae] 2) zi 4] ag asl cs] Ol] ol ol ae ed, 2 Ae 2b) ag
Jeunoowm | /S]_ | Ue |/261 BOvUZ6| oz Ape a0 Ha ve De as zi ae (243, 40\z4.3|
sone | 7) al 4] 721 351 47] ol 2 | 2g| 4s] 3] oO] F| 33 REI 21 MSL GAAS]
7a alas “tac EA at
[__Total TBiLZ SEAS VOLS AGS \/OONFE! ZH) 70 (62213751 /00] / 7 | EFA 36.8\/00.

Number Pes Cent
Certain | Des Total [Certain] Doubifull Total {Certain| Doubtful
4 2 LO
Z| f MAG
fi 2 20
tight Phenom. | 2 1 0.0
Birds A 10| OD\
[s-Clouts, dustet.f 7) / 20 (4.3) /4;
G-Insuffic, Info, AA 10| OD
7-Psychological O| oO ib 00
&-Unknown / LZ a 20
$-Other 2 10 d 20
I LAREL SIBLE Mer STATED
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Ooubttull Total [Certain] Coubtiul| Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful | Tota_|
-Battoon i) E3CE\ JPA JOH 278) 7 0| AG) 138
l-Astronomical A 20/16 T\ 292 209 | S0/ 4 @7 \a3.3 _
tig Pree, | 2 00 | IM ok| hb ||
[sires A 2d Z2/\ 6.7| 0.3] Le Ltt + _
FClouds, ust et.) | 2 | a0 9] OM 0.5) 0.9 H+] |
G-insulfic, info, al 2 0.0 2359/0.9| 20s 0.9 }—|-—+—J
Psychol | 20 3A TD. at L. +++} +
a Pt
L2-|83.34 6, 7/00 V608 Avojas ano} | [ [T | | Y | [| [ [ Ff |

210

TABLE Al. LT £ id
L£/GA ERG f ES
a Seager ov haror \Suneiagr_oy AcomiMel| é ASTER LEH ON STINE
Number Per Cent [recat _Per Cent

Evaluation Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total fCertain [ Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Ooubtiul | Total [Certain | Ooubtfull Total [Certain | Doubtful[ Total [Certain [Doubtful [Total |
[o-Galleon éfa.7 53 rol 1/21 47 7 eA eslaad 8 cals Pes Zt oe) 25) as alo
|I-Astenonica ts 30%2.71/ ZS bo. ab Lt cet alse 50 hues} 2+ 2 12 He eas ws Czas) 528d
ZAucratt f| 3 b. 7 W46V4E laral 6 6 aE 1 4G laa L Wea
sig Prewm Yt Ot TZ ragial ol gtalad ists a Lf iat Aw Ao 2b
4-Birds 0. 8 Gy at ae oe | 2) 645, 05) 70) 2) 7 | / Z
coms ome! 2] 2| d| Od oe 20 2 bitast ot 2 ated arta aot eal Bel ad
Sinsfic ne ¥.0 ol i7i7s| doles| gl 2) 71221 20) | J /[s.3] 20] «3
7-Payebologica aca laay Zz 46 /.o\a.o| 2] o| d| ad ea a Stal aot ga
8 unknown ¢|_ el Vell D hee S36. 216g /[\/¥9|_ 2 | 2 51223) 20!
the 7 4st /T ol {74 2 Aur AAP,

tor TF AA 751 68.018,2.0 a 733 66 F137. 4T| FTN 7HGIS ASV 00 [79 Kz 2k 96. Pia. |

‘0-Batloon
LAstronomical

= Certain = Total | Certain

2-Aircraft

3-Light Phenom.

4-Birds

Clouds, Dust, etc.
$Insuffic, Info,
T-Psychoiogical

& Unknown
9-Other

Total

211

ee |

BL ee Ss
& 4/CGH TIT BEIGHTWESS
Wet te: yy, PROBA VUNLIGHT. ON AeeMoiN SULIT 0M LLASTELA Si zm er ON STawe
Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent _Per Cent

Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful [ Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total wine “4 Certain oe ee
Peer 4G: Pee sha ad ray aaa?
r 0 lo tae | 3! 3] AO. 3/68
Nad 7 4 L/L / 04 44 62!
4 Af Ae as
ol 9 21 fl éa foal £21
2 PY, 2A 04 Bal do)
aera 00 | 2] 51x24 Od x2]
Z| 7] 2il2s5 Za/251
4#7| 23 Alaa fie 1/2) El EAS IZSV00 |

z
i
g
z

F

Total

SRR ERROR
LTT TT
TET

UT

TOC

212

ae 72
Number : Per Cent Per Cent

Variabley Total | Const | Variable Vari Variable i Variable Const = Const [Variable

J
Wy 94]
a
0

Ma

Number Per Cent Number
L Const | Variable} Total f Const Variable| Total Const | /ariable
in caR | Z| | “1 Z7 aol zz a/
eovrpaors | £7 | S| PYF) 2414 3
Q

Sin PLA 3 BY\AS| o.pl7s

t

ws Ae, 0.0

Yl iad) g.dl2/
94 D4) 26/00.

18 =o Ly)
ata oatal
3 oa

: SEPTEMBER QCTORER Nove MBE Q _ DECEMBER.
' Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Const | Variable} Total | Const | Variable] Total |Const | Variable] Total } Const Variable | "Total Const |Variable] Total [Const |Variable| Total | Const |Variable| Total | Const [Variable | Total
0
hin CA | 2) 28 Ld| Md gas os| ast | VM yl eA an & Zz HS ¥2i 1
2-OuTDOO 9b) SOUS. 87 GL eH 4/969 ‘3| lazy /9| 29a ¥e| 5 | 50 3al 2
bw PLANE | 24| 0 AA 0dl 124 27 ol 2a yl Mh] 6| 31 w.71_ 0.2 | /L MILI 2.
HIN BLDG. /3| 54| 4ol ba) 25 Ab NZ0| 05) (35) 23) 3) 33) w/) oal gall 4) ol /Y| £3) na
le :

meieEeenReeam a Pe EE ae eR eanmempeaPamemnmanPDameampniemg@mze@nman

ele

a

ly

Ss

RS Ie

os

TIS
Se
Kr lo

; CL
[  eey

Pes Cent Number cot Te

Const [Variable] Total {Const | Variable! Total [Const | Jariable| Total | Const | Variable Const | Variable] Total Variable
i AT
00 ae

AA

assy

st [Variable| Total [ Const _| et

GO| sve

fed 1% lt ail 20) s33

KN

al

hy
KS

RS

> CS on
slolo

3 3

Bl

Number
Variable | Total

Z

pote! | | | LL sll |

DIS
K > (OS

Variable

2

AFR,

nst | Variable

Total Variable | Total

iy

S [SO

Sis
pd {OO} Cy

Bd

1¥ Q 0 100.0 od. 0.
Ma Lie Yue Wb LST
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Const [Variable] Total | Const | Variable] Total FConst | Variable] Total | Const | Variable] Total [Const |Variable| Total | Const | Variable| Total [Const {Variable| Total | Const {Variable | Total
L yo} tl ail gal et oo Tl Adl 167, 3 3] 7 oa 774 3| 0 273 4.2\ 27.3
2, Of SI 455 4 6} 331 Ad! iti 261 -2.b1 46. al 0.4 24
u |_ 0 AL 60) 4 Oo] 20] of 5) Ol 513i 0.0129 . .
é Tr
‘omer | of ol of dof 00] oof of Of of aol aol a 7[ of if ad op aut of o ay)
T. a.) if od gif ol 6 0o| Go| aol 31 of 3] 27 00 o| O| of ad da dd
Total HE ol Wyool gd. | 6 Of; bliodnl oolw-P3¢] it 774) abo. 1 iil 6 o| 0.0106.
; SEPTEMBER Otrohee NOVEMBER VEC Er2 GER
jumber Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Ci Number Per Cen
oa a variate] Total [Const [Variable] Total | Const Tai Total | Const jVariabie| Total
4 Ld 00 b. | oI 20, 4O sol 6} q
gil 4

34

mal

mr) QD
pt ft

| ol

les

LOCATION

OF GESELVE 2S

CLLIWG SIGH

XL

Number

Per Cent

Variable

Total | Const

Variable

Variable} Total | Const [Variable

Awe

Number

Number

Per Cent

Variable

‘Variable

Variable

216

9 U1

FGL. Dkk SGAZIYVES LIE

SAnUAR
Number Fer Cent
Const [Variable] Total [Const | Variable; Total J Const

as od vA 41 of
3] M5| 5. g

S14.) O4BA ¥
ol ad 0G / oi /

Number Per Cent Number
s| Total [Const [Variable] Total | Const [Variable] Total § Const | Variable
a Tt

t [variable [Total Total

xo
sy fh
Oo F-[S

D0laze

iS

oF a0 a a0 ta
R 2,207

EIT
Le

SOTRER )

T staTen| 41

Tota! 1g /9\9 j re 00.

4 SWE Sve
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
| Const [Variable Total {Const | Variable! Total FConst | Variable} Total } Const [ Variable] Total [Const |Variable| Total { Const [Variable] Total | Const

0
ni can | al A alod OT RT a Li 23

Rovrpoors| 2 Oo} g.0| odo / fi 6 .
Din PLAN | ua aad ri esl Adat Zio s
Zz. ) Gl 2. 01 38 z-2 Z| £3) 0d

HIN BLDG! OF O| OL gd ab
0} 0} 0d) 00
A
hi

Variable

FIP [Pe

ao i{ ol 7\ val _d.
Dd. 4 19 qd gad

INOT STATED! /6 0 50.0
{__ Total £0 C QViE! bo Ww.

+ OTHER ol. fall ol ad bl dao
= ra 3| ol 329
0

DECEMBER
Per Cent

Total §Const

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent

ae Total {Const [Variable] Total | Const | Variable | Total [Const [Variable Total FConst [Variable| Total | Const [Variable | Total [ Const | Variable] Total | Const [Variable | Total

2| 2 2] 3] 67 w3laool ol OL Ol od! od] aol il 73.31 a6
6] 2] 133[ 0.2] 3 1 AT 50.01 1.

o| Wed 0.0 600 i ;

0 O| Ol Ol ad

0 oats 0.0

Number Per Cent

Total | Const | Variab!

i Const_[Vatiate Total
ial bl 50] 900

“lol oF Gofal a
6| Ot OT Ob O20

19} 21 20) 90.0) 10.0)100.
NOVEMBER DECEMBER
Pes Cent Number Per Cent

Variable{ Total | Const [ Variable! Total {Const [Variable] Total {Const [Variable] Total [Const | Variable} Total | Const |Variable | Total

SES SIND 3) Gl 3] 273] Op] 273
35\ 0.6| 13.5 GL AL 4) 0.0) 36!
j.2| BOlW2] 3] Ol 3] 273] a6] a7.
54 oi 541 al Al at ool 66 98

i a Ap Gol ¢
1.¢t 3 Gil G6 9
7794 59. Tul Ol iifieeo] 6.000

218

ALE 4 YGS

| anes | vent Number Per'tent
Const ]Variabie| Total | Const ee Variable

JY) | 15493

Const_[Variable;

yy, Blk SlOHTiMGS £00. ALL VEALS. BY COLOES KREPOLTEOD
QLIOM OF SIC HTN, WWE 92 BtOW{We WHITE  OBIEGTS
6-/0 Sécovds /1-30 Séconps JI/-Go Sé€Conds
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

é 5.0 701 oO /| /lae\ 40| 20

4\| ¢.3°| 229 SINGS Fz

rava WI £2\ fo “(30.4 £2\2h6

41227. LS 1A 2 OLG?| 2@o|aa

21 2\a2\ aelaa| ¢ slgz2| 2a| a

oe! ola] zalac| o o\o0\ ao| Be

| sl oe | sl7s| acl za 2 2.0

7 2
Qo é

| Doubtful} Total [Certain o| be Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Tota

IN38S| CO\ZEL

LIGANSE | LE
e 25. LO\ZER
20| 2O\ fo

31 2\w (fol /7\ b7\4alarcdlao [91 | _ 2 129183. 12.3 (02.

g [8 [8 es Nig WD

pF é/ HDS -S Mares @-FoO_ Minvrés Over 90 Mnvures ‘Duearien wer STATED
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaivation [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Ooubtfull Total {Certain] Ooubtful| Total Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Totat [Certain] Ooubthd] Total [Certain] Ooubitul Total | Certai

iam | 201 dl ePluslucala A al 201g VA/Lsesel UL 3 Log [eel Dee EAvA

(o| $2 | 22 5 V4 81 /al S| zi ocd £2lzz Z aa

2-Aircratt (Al G9 IN7FZiZA 4 . VPA sl 72 Z Wt d

S-Light Phenom. o 2-4 40\ 22\ 20\ 2 | @| plea\laolzZe 2 2 4 2 2

s-Birds 2 2\00| 40 \20| 2 | 2! glaa\ge\le2 é Zé AACA
2\_o DQAGA\2ZO\|Ae 2 (

G-Insuffic. Info. J” /\|_@ LA| OA Lt 22 mm
7 of

T-Psychotogical Z Z| as
B-Unknown 39

g
Z
g

Aa 22 S| 2.02| 27: DAH

9-Other v4 (2| 2oa| se z6

a liana Le rnlain alco:
Tota 87 37 2dB2\ 298 Wce. $4 \/a/ 0 £0 |zrolzcelwe P32| 3 /|KalS/el Gala

Vl GF fal L SIGHTINGS Le cd £ Ve 2.
4UEAT (OW CF SLGUTIYE | METALLIC QE IEETS
41-30 SéconwbDs 3l- G60 Séeon ds

Evaluation i [Certain] i Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain

1-Astrononical a
2-Aireraft LG
[3-Lieht Phenoe,

}4- Birds

15-Clouds, Dust, ete.
&-Insuffic. Info.
T-Psychoiogical

SR IGR [SPAN [SB

BIDID [8 1G Ig [NIN DQ DG

ls] S&S
iS

~~ S Mnores 6°20

Per Cent Number
Total [Certain { Doubtful} Total Doubtful | Total
C| 72 22

£9122
4 2 \ /
FPAEP

ertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful
2 J
a

2

Z

2

4

fa COL. Lhe
o Seeonp 3 (-60 Heusen] e
emer | Per Cent Number Per Cent Number = Cent
as Doubttul] Total [Certain | Doubtful i i Doubtful [ Total [Certain ] Doubtful] Total gCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total

me
NS
ON
ty
SS
Ss

Laz
VX
PA
laa]
vA
Lae!

DIS HW | [Hw
SINGS
IN

S
Y

$-Clouds, Dust, ete. 2} 2) Z =
Ginsuttic. Info. SLAs
7-Psychological 2 22-2

iN f
S

tS

qa
NINNINNSSS
S DY |X [SB & fe |o

N

Ny

iy

S |S
Sr |S
hag,

Gl Setortns -S Snurés 6-30 Miyor. Over Jo Mineres
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent [| Percnt
Evaluation Certain | Ooubtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful in | Doubtful; Total | Certain
P-Balloon 4| ly tural sdle2l Z| v2} 27
L-Astronomical 21 2| 2/271 2.222 Z| 7
2-Aircraft 23 §\.7.8| 254 4 eA
3-Light Phenom. / ZF A LFF] AO] Of ANZA
A-Birds 1 6| alaoleelzce] ol sl 7 acl /2| f
SClouds, Dust etc] oO | PQICZieP\ee| /| 2 f
G-insutfic, info. a 281 20O|Z8\ /a| Oo |/2 |yeal gos. Ol /4
TPsychological 4,0! @gelaa|a0 o| 225] gol zs] 3| |
Unknow 3/1 0 | 374344] aa l# pol 2 lols aoles
S-Other lo S\|SCi20| S01 71 Oo . LO | 8. ¢
Totat ‘S| (EF) PO\GS3\ 16.700. 59| 27 | £O\ TG Ab.alico.
(4 = 4 S S
FOL BUCATION fA e: QAWGE Bk Dat Le All OG s
G-/O Secon bs M30 Séenps w/- 69 S€Con ps
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain Doubtful} Total | Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain| Doubtful] Tota! i { Total | Certain | Qoubtful
1-Astronomical | 2.2| al 22 4 7 aL ie a
3-Light Phenom, 8 gl oO OO\0. 1 2 2 go
Birds : 7, . LO 2 ee emo
[clos oot te] 2\ a2 2-2 3 ‘clad ae A el oelealaoalao|
Ginsutfic, info, g 22 Le} Css} aales|
7-Psychological / JZ 24 2? Price wie awAre ad
B-Unknown ra (| 20 g tbst f zl ¢| o f 2
S-0ther 4 2.2 ul ¢: Za @\@lag A222)
m1 a cc taal 7a 7 Alaa da

[| Stow nse -5 Peres b-30 Maeres a ee | Line 073 Dueanor wer Stare
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Per Cent Rumber Per Cent

Evaluation {Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthul | Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total = Total [Certain | Ooubthul] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Ooubttfut | Total
Balloon Z aw 9 Z| i2\/eg| 6 4] 8 ib Ah Ub Patel ale a AT 7g| /¢lzz
[Astronomia Z a Wl Sl rzical 8. 2lexe!
Zitat WAN APATUCOPE eee ee ae POWVENT DAMAUL. a8 ase
suigtrroon | 2lo | zlesiag |ss| ¢| of élazlaglzéz2| y| ol “i4elaol¢el vl ol Acyl adlcg|
Bits | elol aiaclaclacl ol of alacl golacl of o| alaolaolao ol o | al aol zelaal
pomntat) 2 eo | ote eclaet 2 22] Z claelaelael el el elaslaclecl ala | alaeleotael
eine 2 por AW I2f| ol o| alaslaaizol zl e | 7\/| aolas
a was 51231 ae Sed le Ls beedl ao lzeal 221 2 | 16 123.2 20 |222|
[some S| FARA 3 Er WAP ArT Oe
es Oe ee ee a a De ee eee

Total ce AAccaaa be 7 Taal ea 31 8 [2 lerglap. tial cal 7) eax 4 laeZ bea.

221

Oe Ny
ST Sécowps on sess
Number Per Cent

| Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total

Gl Seconds _- ores Durane er Srarép
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation | Gerain | Doubtull Tota! [Certain] Douhtul[ Total [Certain Doutul| Total [Certain] Gout] Total [Certain | Doubt] Total [Certain] Doutta Doubtful Total | Certain | Davbtfal | Total
bias T| of lagi ool 28 ; 7 anal 3 Stal rll clad
Astronomical zal 3lz2s8l cel ra 3 2 Wap col atleetat
oaitcratt £ | 61 2aaiZ2aae4d Fi 31 7 EL / 2156) £26 00 ue
3+Light Phenom, / | 3 Oz28if4l Si o| ZlgvioolsZs| LO] o| Belge dat g
(Birds 4 °o| ol 2a e2oleel gl o| O|@o\ 00|\ 20] o| 0 olegeleoalee| gai: a f 2.0| 0,010.0
Foods ote] 21 ol] of po oolee| pl o | olacl velgcl v| e| of ae aelool ol of e| acl acle.o
G-Insuftic, Info. Z| of 6310.0 £31 /| o|] /|Z7lacla27l Alo oo lMt!\| 61 o | ¢|K7
TP sychnlogical 4| °| alodooloel | ¢ | el aol eolac| ol oe o0|0.0| 2| o| e| pel ool
-Unkrown 7o| o| folazs| oela7s| 6| 0 | 6| Kal o0lzal ZO 0.0 |222| ol _o | Apa . zz
s-other é|elf eo as ne 20 Jl 3lré4izziasf al? gol siélwe| sl ol / TAPZ.
i_ Tota AS N36 1694| $0.6|0Q).27| 10] F2| 7301.27 0| joa) /1|_ 7118 | /3£9l00| fe|_ 6 |3b [F3, lea
Lz 'S Le LIKES. CPOE TED
LATO, 7) LMC. OBSECTS. OF  GQHEG COLES
G-/0 Seeonps __ W-30 Sten ps 3L- G0 Séton ns
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number
Evaluation i in| Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubthi] Tota [Certam | Doubtiul| Total |Certain Total [Certain] Doubtful] Totat | Certain | Doubtful | Total
(0-Balloon J fal 3240 | Ho /
1-Astronomical s . Lg ¢ / ; C | 2ge /
2-Aircratt O.0| 12.5\ had It 6] fuo| 3
3-Light Phenom. £3\6.31 / Qo LO oO
4-Birds ao\|0o) 9| / 0.0 Al
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. g9.0\00) 321 oO} Olbe o
§Insuffic. Info. 0.0 Va. o o 912.0 Oo
7-Psychological te |ao 2| ¢ 3.0| SO [2]
Unknown o.ols}| 3) Oo | Z/Afo °o
9-Other OolZ3] ol ¢ 9180 oe]
Total Zi G |2ol| Heo Sc
-S Moot 2. aTER
"Pes Cent [Percent
Evaluation i in | Doubtful[ Total FCertain | Doubtful | Tota! [Certain | Doubtful] Total i i Certain [Doubtful [Tota]
1-Astronomical 3 ILI, b fs q . f ‘Z . A | 29.21 O/G
J “ae : , Ls

S
S

SIS Igy

222

2
£-/0 SEconw Dds

zaneat | ol 21 elacleal veal | aolend 7| ol s\z7laol~zz7| Z| 21 21/2 | asl '«
suimren | ol of glaal aelaol a2] ol 2lezl aclezl eof o| pladaclad 2] el alaaiael
tints al el olzclaalacl 4 el aladaelad ol e| aladaclacl el e| alaclac!

lazla2lae\ «| 2| elaslaclac el ol olaciaa |

5-Ciouds, Dust, ete. | eo! al a CO\G0O| 2 | o| QIa?

cwuticne. | 7t ol ¢talaolz/ el el elazlaclacl 4 el alaclaclael Zl ol as aa
g [2

S N SAA N
SPOS ® fe DS IS |S be hy IS

encom | ol o| olzelaclac| al e| eladaoclac| of e| 2laalaelaol | zla2| aa |
tincom | ¢! ol ¥izel aolaa 21 o| 2leziazolsel 3| ol 2 [tol ae led Zio | 4170 | 22 |
some ol ial ael zd aaaowo\ o| el alaczclao sl el clistaol|
Se ee ee ee ee a ee eee

Tota P71 71/4 Wool soo\wol 81 3 [7 Telez3el él o | 6 bead oom Jag) 27lr714ailseg!

223

i SI OND 6 Second
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent | __ Number | Percent |
Frame oma ar os ertain | Doubtful] total [Certain | Ooubttul| Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain Total fCertain | Doubtiul] Total | Certain [Doubtful [Tota |
ed ala a 2d i 2 del al al _ “gal ezied
Aston -| al shad golsao a lwe|_ st ef -Tey| aol zz!
el ol z| 40 20 a e| ol Clad po A ol el alazleelael el ol el aelazelao|
| el of A ol fol 2A | ol Ol ad BGA of o| claclec|aol 4 ©| zlaelac lao
sous une! of ol 21 2A 00 ai} aot 2) Ow Ara |aeceiae} 2|2 2} aol ae ae
e Qb\ oA| “| ol Jel 2004 of el claolaelagel eo] ola | ael ze} ao}
frie | o| 2] Z| 2a ddl pl ol o| ol ad Gl dol | ol sleslacles| ol ¢ | 2 | aol aol aol
| tim | al_ol 21 zl sol zA_al_0| 2leasl Cowal al ol elwslaieel vl el ctevlao
some sf ol of Z| gol Aol ol pl o| 2| ad Gol ool | el fl eelaclyr| 7] viz Vel e/lez
P| tT tT tT tT | PT tT Pp pe
| Wb \0oX/4\_ 7 asXbe7\33.3\aal 21 £ Ls is4sl4cs le |
i On O Miu Dukarien’ wer STATED
Number Per Cent Number
Evaluation Certain | Doubtfull Total Certain] Doubtful] Total | Certain] Doubtful
| 2-Aiccraft ZA PAPEEA GIG 2| 173105
-Light Phenom. 9121 2/2 2 el 2] vl aelaclaocl
Binds | o| o| glad adad 2s shestac 22
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. - A é g 2a\ aol Bol 2 Oo Cleolao\|oo0
| GInsuffic. Info. A 2 ola _20\ pal fe | o 7, ZAigo\|47Zz
Af / oo z/\ el el elael aelazo
| S\46l aoleel2/| 2 | 2/[2221 aol azd
21.23) 9132149128) va 159) 71 76477 61224 | 0 |
on D 62
| revcen ——ftumber_ encom | tunis] Pect
Evaluation [Tea | Crain owbc” Tata [Certain | Oovou] Total [Geran oowbtl| Teal (ceria Oowbtl Total {Coren [Dutta] Tota
| D-Balloon e| clad aolool al el alaolazlacl v| el olaalazlac|
LAstrononica ¢| us| ¢ 2l al glsoolMaleva 7] ol (47 2alaz|
2sarerat Oy, goles) o[ pl eladzsiz el el alaal aol al
C-Ligt Phenom ol clad adaal el | elaadeaglacl o| ¢| alaclaelaol
| Birds o| olazdealaol| ol ol elaalzoelazol el 2 el ad aolae
[-cious, ous ee ol aledaolead ele | oladaclael ol 6] alaelzezlaal
G insti. to 2 [de ocldel ct el alacl acta /| 0} be od us
1 ayetalogica 4| el alad aalocl ole [elzal aaaol ol e| clad aalao|
j b-Usknom @ 0.2 aay to} fas acta of 2 261 aclu./
$-Othe laa | oe | ala aaol ol el olazziaziaol
ee ee eee
| L/L 3 lr 4lpelvelecl 6! 0] 6 Wweda2e
Sécon ns ~-S Muturss 6-30 A : Ovéee Jo Mrlures Duesriet Mer STATED
i _ Number Per Cent : Number Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation I Certain | Doubtful] Total Doubtful | Total HCertain Total {Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain | Doubtfull Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
es rAWITA Zale iol ZA aalen al ol ol cola
| 1-Astronomical / /

ke Alel Evaluation OF WIT SUBATWGS EOC ALL YEAGS BY COLORS KEPOLTER.
FOR ‘OM GE__ S/GHTIWG WHITE 2 GOWN E ptlTE ODBIEETS
on ess é-/2 - Jo Secon Ds S/-20 Secovps
Per Cent Number Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Doubtful] Total in | Doubtful } Total }Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Dowttful] Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
3/ } . . al 3 Zi $aleZl ol / g
91/7 vilvaus 1o V67| ¢.2| 209
S| YG [fot (3.2\2871 7 4.6) /¢.0|29 2
[Z] - 224 D| 98} of g.0] 0.0) 20
Q . 0|8221 O| P| olgolgolzel o| 2
oO 42 o| Sled aclv¢| é| 0
(2) . F a2a1_ 0 g G9@leg|o0|272 A, o .
o eo VBA 731 2 | 73 [a71 pelezA fl _e | 2[333
2|_ 9° YAW 2| 2&| 0 42| go|¥4 ol o
a3] 15 wi 32S fool 36 72 |48 [prolasoljoo L281 & 126

Number

Evaluation Total [Certain] Ooubtul|

0-Batloon LS
Astronomical
2-Aircraft 4 i ¢
3-Light Phenom. A.| J7
Birds o2\ 0
[s-couds, Oust, etc. o2| o
6-insuffic. Info. g a
7-Psychotogical 4 a

2 a

oe

2g

. Evaivation

0-Balloon

NN
Cy

mi
a

1-Astronomical

2-Aircraft

'3-Light Phenom.

4-Birds

0
o

5-Ciouds, Dust, etc.

ft
of

DAD RD 1h [0 Paid 1S

I Evaluation

0-Balloon
J-Astronomical

2-Aircraft

Nlale iS lojok [gis

L Ee f, Ss WD,

Doubtful

iA
a a
fa ertain | Doubtful] Total
PA /
o hi

Evaluation
O-Balloon

I rAstenomica
DAvecatt
+Light Phenom,
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
&Insuffie info.
7-Psychotogical

g
og
o
2

i

Per Ceat Number
Total [Certain{ Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful[ Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Tot:

aston Z|
-Aireratt : hl b Z| 2.2

S

Ys | 3
IN JS |S]

Nt NS RQ 1S
BSNaING

SS
S

Bibbs bh SRE

NSSSSSS
ISB Ig [SS KY [ha
SAI |S aS

NNN ca BSF al
NSRISSRES NE
SAR Is ba bz f
RARER SSEEH

OL LYCATIONM A ATLA DLAUE LE GLOW
TF ONDS ot ‘4 YD = Fy

4 oO ~ al 2 D
| __Pacet f _tumber_——| react | Par Ont

Evaluation [ Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful
Ga 40| FW 8) O1| ole
A 7 col\4A Z| Zl 3

0-Balloor | gil 2} 2! gol 60 20| 2 o
, 9 o g

1-Astronomical G

Total

2-Aircratt Hah elf) ae asize 3 | /| 4
3-Light Phenom. lool aol Z| o| Z
ol /1 /t aed zalza al e| 2]
S-Ciouds, Ouse] 2] o | Clael ap
G-Insuttic, Info. $| oe £9 pol ZI al el 2

Lo | 4] F

a
Ss
Ss
ok

7-Psychological

sate
2

ae

CSttaccas - SF Maton b-3o (teres Nee Jo Ln DutAriat aA
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful Total (Certain | Doubthul{ Total | ertain | Doubtful { Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain
1-Astionomicat aol é/ L 3 SG 2S | ZH
2| 16.3 245)

g
Aircraft 2 J ; 3
Light Phenom, zl o 4.(\ 0.0| £/ | 6
4-Birds o| a AW. 4
5-Clouds, Oust, =p (2) o L ) 4
jensutic we. [to | styal oo/42] 7] ¢ | /l2
Yaa él 2 4.0l ce
ee ee eee
5 633/37 ea L29l_ 7 (2é18

re
im

a iby
SS
S

INAS

20 15

fS Ss

S OK |S
Sjon
WISP

BN IN BNA [gS &
Nie leis 6

> ‘ SSS
SSSSSSSS

ins
8

S SP |S TAS
IS Ny S ).3 aS

SAS SAS b |S!
op SEBRABRNE

8

Nok
~INS
Ny

BSS
BR RAA |
by

Np IS NB ja [s 6 RAE
< slo yo ja 1S fo Ns

Q
bs |
a
BL

3
is
S
S

225

TABLE AEF EVALUATION DE WIT BAT IW GS FOC BLL YEGES 4Y L0L085 LEPOLTED
2 OF _SiGHTIWS , LE) 06 Glows LEO @8IECTS

Evaluation Certain { Doubtful] Total
O-Balloon
1-Astronomica!

a
NIN

DIV 1D QB Jag JQ [WIG lo

ABE
aes
g
VIS [VIS Ig
SD [> [O19 > 19 Ie I

G09\00\ a

Aida loo.

Total /3

Evaluation

5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
&-Insuffic, info,
7-Psychological
& Unknown
9-Other

| Total

Lee

Li WOES FOC lb YEARS YY COLDES  KEPOETED

Evaluation
0-Battoon
1-Astronomical

2-Aircraft
Cee Phenom.
4-Birds
'5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
Glnsuffic. Info.
7-Psychological
8-Unknown
‘-Other

G/ Sec Luc7e $0 Mintwres ] Dusativ wer STaren

Number Number Per Cent
Doubtful Total [Cestain | Doubtful] Total | Certain [Doubtful | Tota

by o| Ol Pi golee | ag

A | 21 7122/43

AC Y0\ 0.0\|00

a2 OOOCO'O0

Evaluation Certain

/3-Light Phenom.
4-Birds

2 2
oO o [A
5Clouds, Dust, etc. oO Gol 6| O| JG) 2.0) gdolag
G-insuffic. nfo. o 001 ¢| o| 2\/7 ol ge |/30
7-Psychological v2) ZO O| 8) 8 | gel 4olaeg
&-Unknown a $0.0 o,f lS 80
9-Other et \22 41 91/1221 00
i_Tetal 7 yoo \ as) ar \¢6 |5G2140 1 Yea

226

“a ELLDL IZ) Qu

Evaluation [Total | Certain [Doubttt [Tota]
O-Balloon , 2 P “ .
1-Astronomical | | |

Aircraft
Light Phenom.

Sy

mS
ay

aN

X

SH
aN

aN
S |S

% is SS NS
AL RRSSBRERES
Ky
IS
8

S

G oe LOLLY
j__Munbe—_—[__Percont Mantes] _reecont ——f_umber | recent |_| Percent
Certain [ Doubtful] Total Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubthul] Total [ Doubtful] Total | [Certain] Doubtful] Total | Certain] Doubtful Tota |
7 el Ziel Zolsol gf 3 a Veal # led 7a v1 21 7
4G

aac ears
aalZgaigsd F 0.8) 8./ 1/8.

s |S Is By fy [9 [8 ISO

is |® fv 1 [ey fo D Io
MRIS RIS S | [NW BB st
mw Fe lo Pe ty D @|

La N IS 1S [eu NaN

RANA zt 2 o| 31% /| ao0lf8t Z
O\|olo 40! 0.0 gol Z| O| O 20| 9.01 9.0 7)
a|a G9| Gel ge|dgo| v7! o | Ol Gel ¢.oalao o
OQ ‘eei0el9e| 01 o | elpel ole ol 0.
22 é|e 2.0 /2e| aoyzel Z| ol 71

ee ee eee

ya EO

4 CBIECTS. Qe OTHER COLORS

Ll220 SECOND

Evaluation Certain Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total | Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtful [Total |
Sa via ALL al 2a taser
LAstronomical O01 ¢F | s“[aal rc level a | / o2 4
Pehircat 23| Z| 7 | celas| 2 2 | sl ecdl23/|37.5)

'3-Light Phenom.

4-Birds

'5-Clouds, Oust, etc. 2?
&Insutfic. info.
T-Psychological
& Unknown
$-Other

Lely g2\54\ 2| o| 2 |
Lol oleeleclscl e| 6 |e leelae|ae
oO g.

02,00

D
RS

2
2
3

B| ERERESP RES

Certain | Doubtful] Total Pertain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total

|_ 3] ld a¢les] Aol 7]

Pet | oleh bezt aly | Zl

| |] Sl2si/a.slacol 2 ol 2]

Vel of sf 37 L012 ol ol

Db 7) ra TA
in

SRN
SIS
iS

SPAS IS ISB & Sh
SR SWAP Ry |S
SASRSRISSESS

SS
Ss S&S
SER
S [S [gy
a Is

GIs [Ss

Saks
RS
eo (8 fo

'5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
Ginsuttic, info.

1-Psychotogital a2

Nees bisklal
BSSSSSISS SS

bo
ow
sie

IS
f
IS

bs 1 © Ie fa Is Is ‘
r nh le ly [S Ss AA
Nh |S BS | 3

Ai o0

227

ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee Ue
SN
ny

Z ELE Ee, LOMILMGS FUR P60 VEAES EY CtdeS REPDCTED
ECE LDLeBATION GCF SHGHTL Mhtd Le CR GLO Pr = DESECTS
S eps of Léss 6-10 _S&¢onps Q Seto ps oD
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Per Cent
Evaiation [Certain | Doubtiul] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total fCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total pertain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubthul] Tota pCertain st Total [Certain [Ooubiful | Total
O-Balloon l 4 go ‘a2a3 /| 2
FAstrononical 197 | 97146 7| [4\u6\ 28. 1|4 A rr eliza

2-Aircraft 7

Light Phenom, o

4-Birds Z

Ss
s
Si

S

Na
x

S-Clouds, Dust, etc. 2

e

is JIS

s |S

QING G9 [OK Iw

eo To [> |o |e

VY) SRARES
S| RESSE

NS

SMS
Ao

G/ Secon ps - 5S Mit verts 6-30 WUT ES 2 Téa
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Ooubtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total | Certain st ae on eee
1-Astronomical 2 Am Py 5 Ss. ‘D
2-Aircraft 0. Aga E91 3
3-Light Phenom, 04 Zo\pal\ &
5-Clouds, Dust, ete. 9o\ 9.4|32
é-Insuffic. info, 31 9.0| S73
1-Psychological LA | LA Nal ST
-Unknown , o|£79
9-Other 219.0132] 2

Teal 4.221347 1/00] £3] 3019316791323 ol 34] 9 1¥3 (74/1209 ool 8s| /8 Vo3l82.5/75 la
VAT LA SEZ % (4 (a

(OW OF SIGH TUM, META, LE SECTS

~ 30 7 ae J/- 60 ones

Per Cent ‘Number _Per Cent

Total

2 IRAE 10.6

olZa\ooloo

Ginsutfic. Info,

7-Psychological

00 pee] 00 Baie: a | ol ao
GA PLE ame FF 6

Evaiuation

'0-Baltoon

1-Astronomical

2-Aircratt

Light Phenom,

4-Birds

5-Clouds, Oust, etc.

& Insuffic. Info.

1-Paychological

CY £7, 4
e ~40 S&evds
Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful

[Certain |
o0(3 | 431/731
94\ 3. es 4320!
lee! acl _o| ol 2! o.0 | 20!
2a _o| el al | 20!
S-Clouds, Dust, etc, | al ol 2 laa |
abe [| eZ
[eunoom | Z g
Gf Secowos -S Mtures 6-30 Mu __ Quee 30 Mur DURATION wa Aré
Evaluation Doubtful[ Total [Certain] Doubtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubttul[ Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubttul| Total |
0-Balloon G7| £9i2ve1 8 | Sf LIU LNLL3 12, 3 12 | So MZ. Fire l6612¢\|9a
FAstononical | AVANT? 2 42\ 2¢| 22 Lela bach ca Gold § \V2.9
Levit | 15|13.1| Hr |@ve| al s Ab9 ere 4.61 2.7 vos /2| lzsiz21 26 lag
stigtPremn. | 32 | / | /6\¢9| o| ol gv 24 20 aio: 2} 2laeteeiad alt | /2| 2.6| 42]
Birds dio | 4o0|2o!lgol 9 OO LEILLF o|z S/ {| Z#|42| 46 wr
S-Clouds, Dus, ete. 2 212. pA} 2c ad} eel ca éloalelecleclal gl ol ol acl gel aol
Ginsuttic, Info, CZ) o ly Vrs gel«s} | 9a fas Oo welt. 0) #51017. aolzeL
Psychological al aolzol al o 2fleo|28| ¢| of slzélaclzz] 3] 77 gles l ed
BUnnown q7| ols acl ae lest “| ol le sloo leez| 2A _o | 29\/74| 2 elie
othe 2 eolg7| 4| 0! ¢¥ [aslo loz4| o Lvl ed| olga
Satrtral [7T 7T [fT | | [| {fT [Ty
Total $31 /9l7alrelzdlyol 331 ¢ 139 (Heli yoo |736) 37 a g/4 12.6 ya |
We Ald EVR UTI DE BIE CT SIE TIVGS ~~ Fae Bil. VEAES AY LORS KEP ETE
FOE fvRATION GF SIGHT UA Lil Ce COWWWE CRANGE  QBIECT:
SEtovas ow 4 C-/0 Shan DS 2 SECOND /- 60 Seeonps
Evaiuation Certain] Doubthull Total [Certain] Doubtful [ Doubtful] Yotal [Certain | Doubtful] Total | ertain| Doubtful] Total | Certain] Doutittul Total | Certain] Doubtful | Total |
vastononieal | //| ¢ [7 |azsiscolves| | 2] sl¥agolwzl| 2 2 (3.3|Z0
levine —s| kt S| 8 an +2 eres esas Z al zl 20
3-Light Phenom, IZ] ol g|lP%oelaelgal og Q AW. G27\2ZaA 2 ba| 2 o Mmarary
i-Binds Wal?a 2 eleclactad 2 21 /le2.dol ee e|_¢! oleel ae lao!
ieclots osete| Pl ol o [aol aolacl | o| cladaoeclac| ol o | plagelaclaol o 2.2. ba
snsuticne. | F| ol lol eolel of o | olesloelas A 416-71 G0 |e.
1-Psychologicat é ols CAS g pel 0 |\go|l 2 mA | 20 |e7 |
-Uninom ol slayl aolzs o| sleaze leo] ¢ 4
sother Zi / izsvaal 7|¢ | vlé 2 22
Tota 26 1/4 So lerolerolalt/al_o |/a eee 0.0 |yoa|/o ral

ble OOS Va ATION OF OB IECT SBT,
60k DeaTION GE SBA
pe Késs

Per Cent

St _Séconp

Number

Evaluation

Certain | Doubttulf Total {Certain | Doubtful

0-Balloon o| O\ o
1-Astronomical al WA Lae
2-Aitcratt a o Z@
3-Light Phenom, o 2
é-Birds C2loetg
$-Clouds, Dust, etc. OD o
Sinsuttic, info. 2 o
7-Psychological 2) 0
&Unknown 4 oO
S-Other r] | oe

Evaluation
{0-Battoan
[Astronomical
2-Aircratt
'3-Light Phenom.
4-Birds
S-Clouds, Dust, etc,
Ginsutfic. info.
7-Psychological
&Unknown
9-Other

Total

Evaluation
0-Baltoon
1-Astronomical
2-Aircraft
'3-Light Phenom,
}4-Birds
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
G-insuffic. Info.
7-Psychological
&-Unknown
S-Other

ZOVME!2

RAND

569}

Evaluation Jal Total [Certain | Doubtful
1-Astronomicat mw
2-Aircraft 4 a\ Zz
3-Light Phenom. a o
4-Birds i)
5-Clouds, Dust, ete. | 2
&Insuffic. info. a
7-Psychological 7]

WEA TAO. QF St Zz 1
LT. 3 Secoues

ps of LEIS £2 Se conas
Sa ee ee ee ee ;
eB an Tr Ea Dea” Tos | Noe Toes

eee Ee ar So Zlaelae|
| 6] 3] 9 l9s7/7s lee 7] lo Shea aces 11 227

eee bal iste Hef ee

| al ol 2]

S
N

beh b
Niall

S

4-Birds 2
I5-clouds, Dust, etc. 221 OAG. 2.
7
2

| ad 2a\o0 Aiea
ZV/7\ a2l47| 2| ol 2laal allazet
yeclaeiael ge 2) iif) 24 2\_e| plac ao!

ExY)

SSSSS559

BENSSSS

DIR NAS PAA I[s
S_RRBSEBE ERR E

13

Per Cent Number

Evaluation i in| Doubtful in] Doubtful] Total Total ee
0-Balloon / A3\p0 iz G | F| BLL. EMEN
1-Astronomical / , 3 | Fd ($2, Ff ;

Per Cent
Certain | Doubtful | Total

Z\“I| 74222
ae ae ial

LOO OD

00 seater ease ¢| o | 4
lad aalaa| el «|PladaclaclalelZ|
Az lel Jit eal? | eo | Zlas
EI P716-71071 We
re ee

(744

CE CES.
1-60 Sy

Fy
A
Fe
ry
Ea
EY
Z
a

VIALE FCO, FCo.
——— ee Tectia Sl al
Pal_aLZ POV YALY, £3] ZA sz} A 2 =n

| ¢ [ /s] 290 e| Aeilae

ae Spee
rh 2H 771 285|

2422144,

aalaalaol ol | /taol ez ea 7 el Jl WizelZ/
2| 42) a] o| 21 ad gol dol el ¢{ /\aol 7/1 7/|

Liss Ske ee ee el ee tae aca oe

| zt of 7127 aol f7l 2] 0 | 267 OOK ol

Per lanceter rete areata

6] ol Zl“ aol“al yt el / 20 a} zlMalae lal 4 ol bil ae Zi

ote | Clacteslaal tel et ad tA ole 1 lal ealad/.

A217 [3 AA Ze 00 7 9 |ra 50 250 FT Fe loss 00d 7) F173 Zs

a
N

SS

sh
SSSSE

S

elu

S19
SRR

N
H |S
N

y

S
N
NT
SS
S
Y

as38
NR
He
IS
S
IS
S

a a Nb Parent
rai [ Outi] Taal fern | Doubt] Tota etn [Dobtl| Total_[Certn [Doubt] =e Doubt [Tota

} a2} He} Laasl 222s iMviieiP

y

wll
ly

N
SS

mA
i amawa eames i

SESSSSSSSS
BS S
PESSERER ERTS

DS

Themen!
SS Ka

SISSSSOSSG

lolz teal A276

231

ee ee i ee ee ee ee ae eee ee Ue CU CU...
SS
i
ln
N
ln
hal
XY

TLE IP EWALUATION. DE fll. SIBKTIN GS FOR pte VERES BY WOBEL. iE CELE CTS
LL SbH THUG FOR BRATION GF SIEMTING , CWE LBSECT.
L kSecwvos of Less EMO SECON RS U[- FO SECONDS G1-60 SECONDS
Number Per Cent Rumber Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation in | Ooubtfull Total {Certain | Doubtful! Total gCertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total sCertain | Doubtful] Total Certain | Goubtful Total §Cestain Doubtful Total | Certain |Ooubtful | Total
[eaten OE: Azz 3| F\ 7iz2| 29147 6| Wzolzal¥al 9 | AA sel 2g iz.
i1-Astronomical TN G68| 87 3\ W/| 43) 261 69H 6\ 91 Nso7Z| 46 MS 6/224 7 ee7 AeA ($| SAVES
2-Aircratt , LSI G ts ALLEY Ba g x B\/Z7| (ZN2Z7A_ 70 ABV IE O| /12\ 29.
sei a vlaoled M7 2larL aad 7 Aetiaa_ OL Dl 2al 2c 12)
4-Birds QALBAA_ 6 ©| Olad| Boa 2122 222 PZ
2s\ael ol ol Clad ae Z| 21 eal 2a 20! 2 A ae\22\ ad
g\sz| 7 o| 7s al « el aolb’
Zolzse| | O| lad za APL, AAW AWE
O22, 42 222) 42| gal. 20\25| 57 ‘Abaz cal
| 281 £2 2) ZAlis| aly zy\|s9| 3 WAVeARY
PT
ALY 100 72) A I az ile de WHA 6/205 2298 bon [72] 27 VEA ze 3) 2¢ 2a |

Sees -$VYyures | _ 6-32 SITES pee 2 Mnerees | Lverian, wel Seated
Number Per Cent Number Number
L Evaluation in | Doubtful in| Doubtful Certain | Doubtful! Total | Certain Doubtful] Total | ertain Doubtful] Totat aa eat Total | Certain] Doubtfuj Total Tota
Ss SSL A 22 weil Gl dalDoLestas lead a ol se ee Pe eal Sse, 22
Astronomical “3 aera Za) 2147 selez| 2] 7 Ape | 42 £1 92.5
2-Aircraft Zz, 03 £| 32) A2| £2 IS 9 4 JAY. A ase VEEOES, 6M bold
S-Light Phenom. 21 Was “\20| ¢2\22) O| 2| 2lgol val ze 2
Binds L 20 Z\g0| golz0e| | 2 Llael eeloe 22\ 2
S-Clouds, Dust, etc. Z LIAL Zi 27\ 2. AC é 2| iA 24 2a\29 Z Z
Ginsuftc, inf. 2 ao| 92 (23 27] ae] 27 O[/2) 6-81 po leg|// Z 42 het
LP sychalogical Zz. 25 \ L 7\2¢\g0| 22) 6| 2| 6\29\aelzy ElO2IAS
B-Unkrown 2 0 6/\izé\ aa lzs\4n Clas zslag lesa 2 [2d \z.7|
S-0mer g 0g [/sle2l z2lv/l 9 F1/3l eel zest 22 41 zz
Total 78 er sed/\ 20.6 25 |3¥3\72.3| 277 oo EA SZ 206|W/ gl 2stloa VGA IF N62) wal ze clrc0 |

BLE 2 2p LUAU AT A LL STG; Ss iL, Ene s E s
y, CBIECTS

Evaluation
0-Balloon

Astronomical
2-Aircraft
p-Light Phenom.
4-Birds

5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
G-Insuffic. Info.
7-Psychological
[pune
$-Other

Total

Evaluation

6-20 NMINWWTES LvER 30 Muvveres| Lepatin NOT. STATED

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
ertain | Doubtfst | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Certain {Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful} Total [Certain | Doubtful} Total {Certain | Doubtful | Total

in | Doubtful] Tota

[0-Batioon UE lz a3 eslye 3) A Alaa foal 4 A15.2 1291 27
4(4A bblyo 2| /\ Sol gol sal é 16 £9 |U.7
AVE Aiki £| /0\200| 30.0\50.0 [arabe
Ej Zales| COL A ad oA od 7 2) 7/2 | ao
Aled a2elao| A 2 A 0 2 2 Cl Zl ze! ae) 2a!

2 Becaolart Af 5H 5A ND FAVPAWE

ZN4L4)\ B82 Z| 2 DOWN 7| O\ FIGs gaol Zs

| 00] 20 ele 2 YO OD 04 A Ol Dl zal gealao
41B3| gol ZZ 2Q\ /\ 50| 00 S| 27\ 2 ti\ 00 \%p.g\

BA66| goleé| 7. 2| /\ S40 bl £0 2. s|zé\¢
is x24 on Soo N ZZ) _F (ADIDDIPODN ESL PAG A ec

. 232

SLB, ge EDL S el
LEE S8HTIWG £00 LWENTION CE SIEHTING | THREE 70 _7EW  geJE Ors
3 Setones on LAs bE S£Cong WO S Elon es WHEO SECON
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Aumber Per Cent Qumber Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total fCertain { Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtful| Total [Certain | Doubtful) Total [Certain ; Doubtful] Totat #Certain Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
-Batioon | Oo Z | 22 | LO
Astronomical 9
Sight Phenom, G! of
4-Birds 9
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 2
Sinsuftic. tnfo. 2
7-Psychological | 22
tniaow adler
some | 2 AA
| __ Total
{__ Evaluation
[+Batee
1-Astronomical
lo-nircratt
[Light Phenom.
Birds
|5-ctouds, Oust, etc,
GInsuttic. Info.
7-Psychological
{e-uninown
|S-Other
Total
BhLé A200. Luau aTIOW Ze tL SlbWrlwes Fee Ale | 2S LETS
fee TEMA 0b. Leatie GE _SUbHTWE, ELEVEW 02 MME AR/EGTS
ca OMS, OF LES. ELE LOM WO SE Congs DAHEL St0pn es
Number Per Cent "Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
i Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Ooubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful Total | Certain {| Doubtful | Total
-Baton Aol 2| a 2 ee Oo FAM AMA A A2|\ 2A wa
frastomnical | 7] / LA Dd 2000 GA 2/1 7\ oolz3334 ol OT Cl 2d od Zo
p-aineraft JT Z) lao 201 4 33] 20334 C1 Cl Zl pol agi 2@q /| 2\/ A022,
aigtrrmn | | 2| 2[ pil 0d] 2 2\ 00 2004 2| OC] | Ab od) po ZO] 22a Go| 20
ait a2 21 04 20 a0 3 04324 O17) /l0ol sazsl A Ol Asad o0le2d
sclouts, usta] 2) 2 | O| PA 00) 2 Ol 0G bb 22) Aol Pleo 24 od Cl ol el 2g Ze| 20
Ginsu. a, 71 | 31300 00|50 00| GU Ml A ClO LO bp) Z| 2) | a4 Zo bd
roemoial | oO] 2| Ol od Gol o WARE 2 WOW AAPA PAA
Unknown Jl oe 0.0 BD 90. AY ON 0} 2) PP) 00 GOD) Z| 2) 2 A875)
Voter A 2 WL 2 0 040A CLO! lad Oo gol oO Al Aa a 22
[_ | ee eee
Tota BE AVZA EAA 667132301 C13 lOaloola_ £1 Cle WA ZOU
6/ SELDWDS - BPD UTES b- 20 Mimvures QWEk 80 Mimures DYeA TION WOT STATED
umber Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total Doubtful f Total Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful | Tota
O-alleen A 012 Lb 0 A A Tlas Wa aA ol Ol Wo ALD Ol 2 zaleo
[Astronomia Aes 2/ 4 AWAVM2 4| 2! lego aspad 7/7) ol /l4sl a2
DAinesat | 2) oA AL ATAMW Al/ | A 24 23| 21 2! /\ eel esl
Light Phenom. L212 OD DA AC |, 2 ? Zz GH 3. Zi 2 2\ 20| 20\ Go
[e-Bids D1 / 2) 9N 2\ ol Ol ae 2) 0| ALA Zo) 20
SClouds, Dust etel 7] 0) Pe WA wy Z| AA a
Ginsutfic. tno, AWA, OL OL 2| / 251 2\EC|E\ CO oo 72
wyenbgct | Ol P| Ol OA 2d go 2 LO, 21/43 20 73| 2) 2
unknown Ol FRA ADA 3| 0 L037 20 2 |2L\667| oA f| 2
S.0ther We ACl|Ll 4g gai wl 2 / | /| @ 331 2 2
[_ Tota 7273000) 7\_ 7 \ 9 BIB VO NZS FO 973 PIVOIZ/ | /

233

LIME, te Len
O-l0 sbtouas

Number

Evaluation

YZ) LZ
ew / hes

Le
2 SECONME.

Number Per Cent

Am AAR?

PA

EAA l/l esl zal Ws
Z OZAWA ARTA Al

sae] Toa [| nT T O[D Ta [Oa [eT [Tata
oi Anata a a teal?
[2/57] eA ae 9

3l zz 2a!

Total [Certain] Doubthul Total | Certain | Dovbtiut | Total

0-Batloon

[rAstoonical

2H AZ) 23) £5) 5S) 49/26

INF) SASIMZ Le

2-Aircratt

3-Light Phenom,

Zé) ZA 22) SSV4,
Lé /| Al Og

[esins

S-Clouds, Dust, etc,

§-Insuffic. info.
{7-Psychological

&-Unknown

je-Other

7, AA ©) 4 oA
(on /7| Zl /lazl aoe
Af| 7A _O\PAVEA_ 2

Total

as Age 2d 12
SANZ? O|7Nb Gl Doles

OR LESS

bald E LOWS

WG £00 Mk ATIO

VEE L2 SHAN 0 126

S
S
S
IN
NS
S

Vb

Yee

Pes Cent

Number Pet Cent

Number

Evaluation

= 7 Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtfull” Total [Certain

0-Batloon

| OO g bb\ Ao

[astonomical

HES

2-Aircraft

3-Light Phenom.

= = 9 [Certain | = Total |Certain
a 2 Ey re A 8.2\93.

4-Birds

5-Clouds, Oust, etc. me
G-insutfic. Info,

{/-Psychological

b Bi 4
Yb! O0| 0
oD £3

or ota

aaa

ue

q | A464,

Number

Evatuation

0-Bailoon
1-Astronomical

Doubtful

2-Aircratt

¥Light Phenom,

7
13 eg Dx

anne oat | |

a Ae
imaomnat [7] 7]
tomen [1S

IN
she

es

627)

235

ca 749 H. ‘7S
IZ 0 2 SIGHT UG _, LEE 72 FE: WS COTS.
LET SOT 2-60 SECOWOS
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
ertain | Doubtful| Total [Certain | Ooubtful] Total Doubtful] Total | Certain [Doubthul | Tota
i? Hi OO 48| 48 LLAI a ée
Bi 32\7/ 34./ VASE y
A O10 eee ry, wa
LI 6, 71734)
ipa Z 2\C\ aol 00| po}
2\ 00 ag 2d
Lo, DD ma
| 22) 269]
5 Dl oo Lut ae
i
| AF 173.31 267000.
bl SECONDS. - & /AIMures bf0 _pumwvrés (WER 90 Mim ures LDeRAtIONM MOT _ STATED
Number Per Cent Number Pet Cent Number Per Cent Humber Per Cent
Certain | Doubtful] Total {Certain | Doubtiul] Total [Certain aa Total [Certain] Doubthil] Total [Certain | Ooubtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total Pa Doubifuy Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
3 22) 673.9) 3 54 5408 2 AA AGG o) Ef att ao ba
A aeled Aad OLD 2d 02140 LHL i: epee
S| FIAFVAS/TE BA VAYLi 3] 2d 3. :
2 Light Peron 2|3 44 bS 3.f eee , (2) 20| ).2!
Birds O| O| L\40| Go O| P | LOL
fee Oust, etc. Z oC A OO 40 4 A 4 g d A d 4,
Glnsuffic, Info. é| 2 3. GVES 2 ? ZA , L0\23.71
7-Psychological C / GO| 22 ” ) 31 3,
Unknown /4) OLAS 6
/| 2 Z| AD
AD/AU ZAZA
{4 £4 MY ML, [72 MEE, Zs

CEL CH TIWG fle LleATION LIE AIL tl LR IL Ca LE e,

5. SECow0sS ge LESS GAO SECONDS W230 SECONDS -60._ SECOWDS
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent umber | Percent |
O

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful

D-Battoon YH DO Obi 00 a2 70 20| LC
Astronomical OA /\ /| ae vo| 2 a O0| $0.0

-Aitcrat 2| 3| M0 200\pO) A Al 2 ata LO
3+Light Phenoa, QO o| 2! bol fol 00 O| /\20|_ 00lsa0
Binds | A DO! LA 20 oo 2| 2| 04 _20| 20

S-Ctouds, Oust, etc.
Ginsuffic. info,

O

1s, , y
O| Ol 0G OO GA plo Add Bt Le
Ol 3300) GO 300 Bae LL = yy
OOM vw ela og DB
2

SE ttadeesteat a
AVEDA

G-PO (Aimelés Wek 99 Minutes Luatiow yor STAE2

1 Pr i
ertain beeen Total [Certain oa Total ta — Total sir aT aT toa ca Total
ois] A C| Ol pa ob 20
25] 3| O| 3\4%0| 4A250
OO| GA 2|_/\ S| Bl SA\ F2
40| 250 2\ {\go| 00
Ql O0| A2| 2| Wl P| 26| 0d| ao
GA 0 0| 2) 2| 2A 20' go] Oo 2) Dl a0) 20 42
O4L OC; 2 O\ GO| ol al 6 ; ,
24|_ G0) 20 2 2| 201 SA) 2
3lez5_0.0.37A/2| 2/3 lés0| A060
VAWAWL EL Wa Go| $A ED

236

Z E . 5 S. SLCTS
- LEL Slbb C6 Fab MLATIOY ZF AZ QME DE ISZ OT
[OS se cowas ce LES 6-0 SELOWDS U2 QWs -62 SECowos
Percent. Number Per Cent umber ras ftumber Pes Cent
[Certain | Doubtiul] Total [Certain | Doubttul| Total (Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubt] Total (ertain [Doubtful] Total Doubtul| Total [Certain [Doubtful | Total
Ts Zl 2 a1 stad adcs| al #1 Blasi wet] 91 PL] Bt ZAsd
D132, 679 sla Tole siead 7h Metal a 173 gl 7| St V/A 75 AYZ7|
ba LY 120/22] £8220) 22 Vi KPIZ 23| 151 32|/P2 25/9071
21 4A ai 7) we wie,
2| 0 | 24 40 Zo) Ol Z| A WD
2| 2 Z| 2a4_ll /A 0 Eo ae a ae
(Psyop | 2! | 24 20| aN _ ol 2[ 0 AL BLee Ce CY ey del AZ
eum Ls] Ol ys oH OO] gal yell 4] 2580 AD RA B3| Ol a3\275_ Blezs
cAVARU WEIN: 21 222 golz A 4! #12920 sol ol 2) S125] “7142
Tota 736| 78 |2ZBASBNATMO\ 23. ZF] 7/69 AIOF |00, ASV3BIGTE3ZA DON 8 ALB /VZANHAZSS 0]
SE Comps - MimvrEes 6: JO _MImvrles QvEL OQ pNMUTeES | Location gor Srareo |
Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent
Evaiuation Certain | Doubttuly Total | Certain} Doubtful} Total [Certain] Doubtfull Total {Cestain| Doubtful/ Total fCertain Dann ToT [OT] Doubtful) Totat
0-Batloon A 29 JIG SIANZTA 5 /| BE/PI| /LZABAS A
61 Si A 24 Zh F229 Li abel Alls uf ieah
Levine | 21 3/| 6 IIAASLELZBA 26] 23 4A 2A Fava 7 251 27] d
Smee PrErvemerey
Birds L| O| OL eA WOA “| /I Zl 23 23 0é
SClouds, Oust, ete /|_ 2/44 ao aa /| el /| 23) a0 23
insu. io, Fl 2 S144 Cola za 2 l¢7l224/1 pol2z/
ab Zi Wea EAL PEA ZFL DOTA
9-Oter él AST 79 S3| /7 F Atlee ARWA
Tota 293 \AI 25AM0\ 306 88137771223) [00 |
Z £y 2 EGS. Ss
JEL HATUVG FOe DURATION OF SBM TU 2 LBSEATS
5 sé¢on0s Oe Less b-10 Setoms LL £0 LO WaS. =60  SEtQWOS
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number roar [oma Cent rar | mumter =| Percent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain } Doubtfull 7, Certain | Doubtful Ww Cestain| Doubtful] Total §Certain | Doubtful] Total Doubtful] Total Doubtful Certain | Doubtful | Total
See ae ZA /| 3 #1 43/2023] LL DID] 00 aol 0
iownit | /|_3| AZ 7 [a0 a A ool Al ao ad aol Or iil
2-Aireraft ae 7 Are WE g vA i} 33, zp
3-Light Phone. 2 2 Q Ww) 2 LOU.
Binds | 2 2\4 Ao AWA 40 0.0
comes | 21012 ) A ) O| P| bo 00 60
G-Insuffic. Info. az A ? Z\2 A /
7Psychological yy D Z ) Go , 2G
aw 247 AWAY, Z| 2| F7| ad, 47] Z22
Other 20 P| 2| 00 2 nw APA: | 20
Total STAVE F231 609139./ Vo 7 4

~5 MMOTES b-J0_ /4wur€s
Per Cent Number Per Cent
ertain a “7 pera Doubtful

oa
Z
Z
La
mi

LN

238

Evaluation

L-astronomical
2Aircratt
Light Phenom,
4-Birds |

tl SECaMOS ~ 5 (iwtEs\ 4-90 yw res MER 20 LUMUTES
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Ooubttul] Total [Certain Doubtful) Total Certain} Doubtful] Totat }Certain| Doubtful] Total fCertain | Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful] Total f Certain

f-Baloon IAPAY F128) TZ 2) Sia Go

le ,

3-Light Phenon, ZA ¥ W)
Birds 4 z Q\20 )
S-Clouds, Dust, et] L\GE

G-insutfic. into -WARAVE
7-Psychological ZA Z
& Unknown
bother 21 / ZA ae

Total FARA TAY

CE|L6.9 12.6 \/02

Py ‘9 SECTS

i _ 484 SGHTIVG FOL LURATUU | 22 ATG ELEVEY OR MILE AG/EETS

S SEcaes C2 LESS C0 _ SECOMOS f- £0 QWs. JI/-60 Sélowas
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
|__Evatvation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain} Doubtful] Total Certain} Doubtful] Total {Certain Doubtful; Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total fCertain{ Ooubtful] Total Certain] Doubtful Doubtful } Total

-Baloon LA_D\o\ 20 Gi ly 0 ae) a, pode 60 od
L-astononica Q| Z| 2A 2a ob bb GOA ON / | a3. AWM OW,
| 24s 266424 / [\svol_odlszol a Ol Pl od Bol OD AT),
aim Prem TDL DL Zi gol ool dol 0 O\ bo| fol aol Zi ol el wh ag A ol] oO} Ol oo fo 20
Se eee | OA Gol GON A A 1 | ool az3l zal 2 Ol Zlyol pow!
O ah tA 8 2 ed oe og) eh Ae ee ee

2

5-Clouds, mael AA ATA) Gb OL g Z
lemsotic me, | / [43 2063 A 01 Ol a0 0d no eel dt oe LL 2 | 26| Gol 00
1-Psychological A 2\_46| Oo oH Z| 20 G4 Lol 2 Z g 20 bd b0
L AOA 2A Bw Z600| 00|bbL
D AA We A A| OO 00 fo
_ Li
2) Z| boloija | F|

2-Aircraft Zz

QHYs

SK
VOB

wwe MA | 02 O00 4d
? 0 L4\_0 2) 20| ao

[ra SLL) AMAZE LOO 7 7| ZBao soley p

&-Unknown
[s-other 0

NIGSS

SY iSO

F Woo ape.

c

O-Balloon
1-Astronomical
2-Aircratt
Light Phenom,

ER PO fynures
Number Per Cent

Per Cent
Ooubttut

Doubtful] Total (Certain {Doubtful Total [Certain | Ooubtful] Total |
Zapato 21 2 Ol 2) 2 2 Ao) 0\ 2 Di 2
| /| aol 2g 00, A 3 0l sized dole 2) /| bel a0 £2)

Z| 21 del zoo ton A Z| ol Aol aol ool a sl sl aa a7ia7| OM /l 2g 62 ga
| Oo] 20-2! LGUeh fetid fo é7| Z2lé71 21 2] 2l od 2d 2

T/L Ol wd aa 22 Ol ad ad saa | A 20 24 44] A el ol a a
| 2 BS ee ee ee ee WA L0\_00
Ee Pe 25 0628 O| O| ACH Go ag 6 7) slazs o0lgzs

0 01 2| A 2A ool ad A al M67) fo eee

| Z| ol 470d o0ls0o) 3| 7| 3bze golzs| g Ol flsaz] adsz3a] 5
YZ lt slzao dogo) O| O| A vd ZO ga A / i\ dol cm é7t i ol | 6.24
a ee ee ee ee ee eee
TT ZY FV /2 39 001/51

Evatuation

S

S
2

| 4617321) 621/70. j

ETAVZA Wa AF 40525022

(f4 Ve, 4 a CLA Os
ee ee ee ee eee | Percent
Evatuation [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain] Doubttul] Total Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain Doubtful] Total FCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [Doubtful
LILI AV EMU TIRET IT APA A
re y 4
PLIPTIPTi )
a4 APE So -8
44 A

Evaluation Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total Doubtful] Total [Certsin] Doubtful] Total (Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Ooubthvl] Total

Hott
LTTE

Per Cent

Al7 Lah LC 4
me Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total (Certain
| aay | 25] £25 S64 e2| a2 24 | #1 _2l_al
| 22 20 4
wAmF:

a

Ey
ZF

A
2

EEReR
Ne Ne NSN

SS
RY

&-Unknown

BY AS DV BS AS AS fs IS
RS ASA A Aes

INN
NINES

gx 221 £8

Number Number

Evaluation ertain | Doubtful | Total {Certain | Doubtful | Total in | Doubtful
O-Balloon { 4 . ZF A OO
3

1-Astronomical

ZAircraft f z
- . 7 2 7
Z| 2

TR
SURRRGREREEE.

lo-battoon |
1-Astronomical
Aircraft
3-Light Phenom,
4-Birds

5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
eee

GInsuffic. info.

Le “LZ Far
— amr me | Per Cent Per Cent Number Per Cent
[Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total Prertain [Doubtful] Total {Certain
PAPTEZE £1 LK A ZoVeel sa gl 9/3
£22) Z| 73 | 18 eld gel 22 hes
7 , a OWE \|Z6\ a 2s\ s\/72) UZ
| 32] 2\ 20| 221 ¥p AVE:
| Z| ¢| zo | Q| 2\207| 20\2e 2| S127
me _4ces| 2421] 2| 2|%2| aol 52 4
[a7l_ 9 2| Azdeolsza xg 3 7
s¢2|__al5gz Z| %zel gal rd al w2le2
| £8| 2/109 | A_al2za Zo 2| 2\'22
me
993 | 802 (2796)

LLLET 2 EAS;

—_SLGHTIWGS £0? ALL VEAPS 29

2 STATES —AEGIOV AE

LOERTIOW

|7-Psychological

&Unknown

Number ‘Pet Cent
Evaluation in | Doubttul| Total | Certain | Doubtful
0-Balloon Z 484212
GREE
2-Aircratt “4 7 25,
$-Light Phenom. A 2 AWA
2 Z (AVAAWA
| olaal a
2| S15 8\ 0.0
A 0} 0.
ZLIAIZS) 0.
2| F128

MM FARM EST

Evaluation

Number Per Cent

Total

ertain | Dou

ertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful

O-Baltoon 5
1-Astronomical

2-Aircratt LE
3-Light Phenom. 2
4-Birds A

now z7|_glZ jad azz
S.Other V4 2i\l3. 22
Toa ZEN IN BEG 21700

245

ZL G, E,
WITE2 Za Ss nd LY A QLATICL
{sd QL WRIA EAST ST EAST
Number Pes Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Ceat
Evaluation Total san aa i To Certain Dorit Total | Certain [Doubthul | Tota
ae 2 eda] £2| 6 / es WY 2 oy gel zed til clad | 21 /\ 4a aal¢o
jrastononial | £26276 ssel¢ziazleel ¢| zl Zest z7 le TAV DV aae, 222| 4a\Z¢0|
suigt Pree | zal 24 29 zi zelzz| /| | 2 26 281 £3) 2/ | Zid tee ected
«Birds | “|_¢| vel esl a?) aal_ol AACZZ|AZlag 2é\ ol ol el zal ecdaog
fectuds Oeste] zl 61 FIZ PZ alad a2lao| ct ol al clad ecad
Pryor! | gs | F| 7 LAL 2} A122} a2: 24 'z4)_@| ol ai[aelaolao|
Unknow $7| 20\/5 @| 9\z271 20 |Zs7 £7 | WZ £| ol “leo adia
Total (8\ 4761209 wsl2esool 2¢| sol fe \727\ u. 3lo0 VA [241 f4¢d 4ol a0.
Wow Laws. Cwrth. COWET. Slut [tia1
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number

(Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain] Doubtful ertain | Doubtful] Total | Certain] Doubtful] Total | Certain] Doubthu
2 al dalla az 262) £2 be Z
al ‘sl iat Z7 1: 9| 27| wel os) 2.3 low 8h zl
P-nicraft sl ¢ | ear | 4) ¢o| £8 wel £3
3-Light Phenom. o Z\22 WA | 7) Bl Zé) 26 |YzZ
Birds 2 AWA, Z| S107
SClouds, Ouse 7) | DIZA CPZ ?| 9| 2\AO
S-Insuffic, info, Z| 2 # A DLO 5Bi OL SEES
T-Psychotogical 2 PAA 42) ON 4
8-Unkra DI alzal £4l 02 s|_o| o5|6z
9-Other 2 24 2.4 20 A é[ 23/2
Total zat ae EI 25. I 00 N52 0\ 10 B\Y26 | HINZE.

G-Insuffic, info.

fie ls
Fy
a

2

Miki Fath LEWTLE HEWEST. SOLTH  ERRWE ST
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cant
ertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total fCertain | Doubtful Ooubttulf Total fCertain | Doubtful] Total | Certain Doubtiut | Total “]

gg 1515

Blea 25g LL sla 4) 2) zs eziez|
1-Astronomical A, 9? Ee | 4 g PARA 7
caw, | 22 ezlzal
3-Light Phenom, 2 P| 2 20} a
4-Birds Z| agi 2 20\ ao\Le
Clouds, Dust, etc. 4} at 4 ) ela
Glnsuffic. info. 2| | fl fA Z2\ Zé
7-Psychological 4 Py} 2s | ated
23 AC YAVAA
ee ee eee Pt |

ye. LU

Oh
2 LTA Lewila,  Lasr SOUT A
| + unter | Percent Nunber Pet Cent | tuner
cate [Boab] Tota [oaa | outtl] Toe Fern [Soi] Total [Crain [Doubt] Teal Cerin | Ooobt] Total | cea
* [o-atoon EL 20 308) 844.883) 5 Zz )

ISS |Z
Hag PN. TN

CY \OO

a| Zizelacles| al ol dale

, dad leg s7| ol ss|cz5!

ws Golus| 2] ol elsviaels/] Zl] rt siege!
pot ft tT tT tT ft tt

i Total [Certain | Doubttul| Total
“ll étage szl az 6 Ap Z| al 27
| al _2l al YAW YAWY:

2

2

< NS ES R
S Og o Y S
SRS AS BS B [\ bobo

NS

Ny
XN
ey

QL \ tae

LE 4223 EVOL 7 S/ICATING S MN THE. STRATEGIC AREAS.

QE LAE CEWTEAL LST LEGION
New WASH IMN ETON banwck gr Céntep Epsr
Number Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent
Evaluation Certain { Doubtful Total eee Total [Certain | Doubtful in | Doubtful | Total Certain | Ooubtful} Total [Certain | Ooubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total
Baton “\_¢\ 2| gol arin a) PAY, S| BAEZ
1-Astronomical LO é /Z a4 ZO £5 Le
2-Aireraft 53 | b6\L08| 27\%. LL SN2PG
3-Light Phenom, A vA Fl / Go| 47 a
4-Birds Z| @\Z QO\ GA K
S-Ciouds, Dust, et.| 7 2 A C| 22\ ae 2
Ginsuffic. info. VA C\Z/ALLZ “a £
7-Psychotogical eA y, JS
Unknown Le | 2| 26 \70. LEON IE
5-Other x es 2 Z8\_ 2
[_Tota 50\ 29 | yleslaz le LsZl
Number
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain Ooubtfut
[pation
}-Astronomical 2 A
2-Aircraft f i
'3-Light Phenom. ? 1%
4-Birds
'5-Clouds, Oust, etc.
E-Insuftic. info,
7-Psychological
'8-Unknown
9-Other

Oe
CEWTEAL
oe Curae, Paew€s:

Per Cent
Ooubtful

ME ft S.

Per Cent
Ooubtiul Total | Certain | Doubtful

Number
Certain | Doubtful

Evaluation Ooubtful

0-Balloon

1-Astronomical
[skirt
3-Light Phenom.
4-Birds
'5-Clouds, Dust, ete,
GInsuffic. info,
E-Psychoiogical
& Unknown

{2 Other

C Total

on
ee a a ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

QELE B22 EVALUATION LE fale |

LMHGS STLATE Gh EDS

ertain { Doubtful

Fs

IS

as

BSSSNSSSSTS
We SENN SA ARS by
NS NWN NS SILAS SEN

fs es ISM]

© rN NaN ar 1S
bk S My |S

LE Z. baie. LL

WWE S 5;

Zz

Number Per Cent

Evaluation Certain | Doubtful Total [Certain] Doubtfull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful
0-Balloon fé\_ 5 S7\_2Z. =
L-Astronomical 7 r i
2-Aircraft “4 4Z “Al
3-Light Phenom. 7A, 7 J Zz
4-Birds / v4 2\ A
S-Clouds, Dust, etc. 2 oO
G-Insuffic, info. a “ul 2 A
T-Psychological 2 a
8-Unknown ZF P< s/|
Other V z 3|_ ol 2

Teta “9\ 97 \go\ se deo Lay| elie

ELMLMAT/ OM

QE LL CSIC HTIN ES TECK EPS.

SOT FLW EST

KEGCIOM

Total [Certain] Doubtful Total [Certain | Doubtfuil Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total FCertain| Doubtful! Total } Certain | Doubtful | Totat

249

TALE 44227 LWALCLATION GE LZ SIC HATING SS Mh fMHE __ STRATE CH LEEDS.

QE. WE CEN Thge EAST KEG/ON

Wew Sone. HIARELS BURG,

Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain [Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain [ Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful i Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubttu!
'-Batloon Z B\ KEL EMLEP ai BY Le
1L-Astronomi cal Z Z| 221 74 ¥¢ AW ZI \ZL/
aircraft AMIPAVZE AL LILES
pusirmm (zl 7] sl zal asl ae ald
-Birds Z| ?| ABA 24 aZAi 2) LAD
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. 2 ZA. ACA LE G2\ 2 L241 fz
G-Insuffic. info. 2| gl wv QOVE: AA DN
7-Psychological N 2| aA sa GO SEL / LAD,
Unknown ¥ a= A 2O\WOA LZ 202 \229'
2| 41 24 20| zz ODE
[_ Total fol _z23\/2alge2\ 78 \00 24 | 78 egal ws lm glee zo £3 | 7 | 97
BL f= (5 ULB LME S. Ue (=a Cle Eres
LE LAE CEMTR AL SMM ME SD ZEGLOW
60 Devran ame oa CEnzene [ones
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

le

id

in | Doubtful] Total |Certain{ Doubtful} Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total |Certain] Doubttul| Total gCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtfull Total {Certain| Doubttul Total — Total

29\20\ Az 2| zleal zz 24

'3-Light Phenom.
4-Birds

&tnsuffic, info.
/-Psychological

-Unknown
9-Other

Total

27 von No | 47 ler v-al 28. /\00 \229

LbLE AZY EVALUATIOW LE WT SBT WES Wl THE STEPTECIC ALES
WEST LEGLOW

Number Per Cent
Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total

Number Pei Cent
Evatuation Total [Certain | Doubttulf Total [Certain] Ooubttul

0-Balloon
1-Astronomical
2-Aiscraft
3-Light Phenom,
4-Birds

'5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
G-Insuffic. info.
: [7-Psyetaogicl
&Unknown
$-Other

Total 7 , , ABZ IGA i

Total [Certain

250

g
Ay

Pi

er Cent

LLAL LE (Zo SVG TAM G §. Lil TAE STRATEGIC BKEDS
LE. TOE SOWZH LNiptlE §; LEGSLOW :
Wa 02 San Av ras Lactate ve Soury Lpawt s7
Number Per Cent Number Pes Cent Number Pes Cent

| ceautee | Certain | Doubtful} Total {Certain

Doubtful

Total Certain | Doubtful | Total }Certain | Doubtful | Total

ertain | Doubtful

Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total gCertain | Doubtful} Total } Certain {Doubtful | Total

3

27 45 2| 2

61 ¢él el 4 |27| Zz sa lyz.

LNAI UIIBLY 21/7
£2\ 9S\ MAG LE

SAAR AS

Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certai

a Doo Tata foe | boob

REGS

Number Per Cent
[ Total [Certain] Dovbtiull Total [Certain] Doubtful Total | Certain | Ooubttul| Total

WwW THE STRATEC LC GRE AS

Zalaeolaol | |
zz3| 2olezs| | |
Total a3 P\SZALZ 100 vo FAIZ ZV
L LUE LT SAE MTU GS
ZA LHe SOUT LAL LWE ST LE CLOW.
40s Bvgeces  Vigante 26 Sivitt Hewes
Number Per Cent Numbex Pes Cent Number

Per Cent

Evaluation

Certain | Ooubttull Total [Certain

Doubitull Total [Certain] Doubtful] Total

LEN. [= ZL

Certain| Doubtful} Total [Certain | Doubthul} Total fCertain| Dovbthil] Total Total Doubtful | Total
0-Batloon / “) 2A vil Z| 71s f 4 tT |
LAstronomical SL £1721 S/) ZAI BZ a x A L— |
2-Aircraft A £ LL\ SLL 41% |Z : é |
3-Light Phenom. Q\ #20 22\)70) /| DI /Is 2 z =
Birds a Ql Claw Z| A\0 ff tt
S-Clouds, Oust, et] 2122, 22 “Al PO'\O\2 | of ft
é-Insutfic. tnfo, Ki 2! SIS 2 ii 2 ‘ Z . | | | [| ht
7-Psychological Z| 371 272| zalzal 7) ols | | | | tT
8-Unknown Zl al ZAG2| OG \Zé Zt /i 2 a J} -
-Other 2 SAW AAD AAG
6| 2/| 92\eesledaol o| wl pelé7dseclon ee

251

ZA €. YECT  SIGHTLMOS. 1 THE STRATE GLC GEE AS
IZ) ZHE CEL Bh. 4ST KEGLO4
Wew  Voer MEREIS URE bLash eral ba puck ge LE res

Number Per Cent Rumber Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Evaluation Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total SCertain | Doubtful | Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total | Certain | Doubtful
baie g Al 26\ 2 tw élalzs eslas el ¢lesdecled el z
Astronomical 261 ENE AMAVAVE WAI 2 Wau a3 LIGA wl F
2-Aircratt 4 g 2122.4 Zz yy) g 9| (BIAS £129 2O\2 Zp EA 2 2
3Light Phenom. | ZO\_f0\ 20) sl 2! 41 /6| GA sol 2 ao Lt 4 /| #7
eens El | aol 2 ad 2 77| 2o\lzz\ | 2207 o\ 2
[SCtouts, bush ete | 2 Z2\| 021\ Ao , 2\| 2 PAP 22 | Z| cA 2
Ginsuffic, tao, 2 21 22 2 4lnave|\e| 2lelegsialef| Zl 2
peace | a] Z| Ag 4\ slelaal| 2| 2) 2laelaciaol 2] z
eum || 05 20054 , 2\| zlzslaales| ol 2leelazi aolad v2) 2
pone} a ol el dal cal eal cl ol cl att ol eal el_ol ot 2 bed t at ate
Total 3 | 22) 05| 720 20 yoo Za 2 G1 M5. b\9L 00g N02 b 295 \o0\ $8| 2% :
BL, V7 LA E SEC, SIG S Z v PREPS

CO jp EST" LEGLOW

Number Per Cent
= Total | Certain | Doubtful | Total

c

npn
a ai , JECT _ S76 W EGIL
GE ZHE LEN TEAL FARWEST KEG/OW
SAW FRAWEISCO Soame we Cewrtae FARES
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent Number Per Cent

Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain| Doubtful] Total fCertain| Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful) Total Certain | Doubtfull Total | Certain | Doubtful Tota

La
i 22 \6.
20 \ 10. |
| 24| Zal 2

252

NS

Z_ Ke
ATLANTA Pao Se Area bacrate ce Sern Mpwiest

2 2 VA
Number Per Cent Number Per Cent
Certain | Doubtful] Total fiCertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful] Total [Certain | Doubtful | Total [Ce

| s|_28| velzeal gy |e)

2 4 SOUTH 2 Ss. 2
fy
et

A
in

Evaluation Total

E

g
8

SS

1-Astronomicat
2-Aircraft
Light Phenom.

Total
S-Clouds, Dust, etc. | ai al al 20) 22\ 02 Tal ol Zl ZO\AC\22

SN

RS
IS

s|zFizieie
AEG
alee
Bie
q

ther Pl vt zt vel cel zal vp ol 7 [e2l ael7zl
[Total S71 26 SEM ol ¥/ | Sol Bal sO
Z f-
Z, LE. Ou Th LE
i Doubtful] Total {Certain ] Doubtful] Total ertain | Doubtful] Total [Certain] Doubtful] Totat [Certain] Doubtful Total | Certain | Ooubtful | Total
1-Astronomical 2b\ 4 y ? § \/%
2-Aircraft 5 , OQ. eA |Zs
3+Light Phenom. , 2 I / LG.
4-Birds / G0 28\ 28
5-Clouds, Dust, etc. f Z AAW Ree —
6-Insuffic, info, 4 /, G\ZZ\ 42 iz
7-Psychological 2 2 O\CZIAZP\20 | t
&-Unknown , 4 766 OLE. .
9-Other { fi JZ 202 C 4 jw
Total — _
SLEAT LMG S STA “e
SZ LEGION
Number Per Cent Per Cent
Evaiuation Doubtful Total [Certain] Doubttull Total [Certain] Doubtful Total | Certain | Doubtiui| Total
1-Astronomicai f
2-Aircraft 5. ‘i zr -

'3-Light Phenom.
4-Birds
5-Clouds, Dust, etc.
€-Insuffic, Info.
7-Psychological
&-Unknown

9-Other

253 and 254

Exhibit Bl.

Exhibit B2.

Exhibit B3.
Exhibit B4,
Exhibit B5.
Exhibit Bé,
Exhibit B7.

Exhibit B8,

INDEX OF FORMS

Tentative Observers Data Sheet

Tentative Observers Questionnaire

U. S. Air Force Technical Information Sheet.

Codes for Work Sheet - 8 © © © © »
Codes for Card Bible. . . . .. . e

Card Bible . ° e ° e o- ° e . .

Example of anIBM Card. .

257 and 258

277

289

297

301

309

313

_ TENTATIVE
OBSERVERS DATA SHEET

Where Choice is Given, Circle Proper
Answers, or Insert Answer

1. Date of your observation:

Day Month Year

2. Date you reported the observation: _ _
. Day Month Year

3. What time was it when you sighted the object:

Hcurs Minutes
A.M. P.M. Daylight Standard
zone: Eastern, Central, Mowntain, Pacific,
Other
he Length of time object was observed. Estimate: .
Hours Minutes Seconds
5S. Where observed:
Postal Address City or Town State Country
6. Where were you at time of observation:
Inside building, In Car, Outdoors, _
Other
7. Were you moving at any time during this sighting: e

Yes or No

8. Did you stop at any time during this sighting: °
Yes or No
9. If you were moving - give . __.. and - miles per houre
Direction Spee

10. How was object observed: Naked eye
Eye glasses
Other glass (Window or Windshield)
Binoculars, Telescope, Theodolite
Cther_

11. How did you happen to notice the object:

12. Describe what you saw as triefly as possible in the following spaces:

a. Sound _ be Shape _
c. Color de Size

e. Number f. Light brightness

ge Light color __ he Motion __
ie Speed __ je Other

13. How did object disappear from view: Suddenly or Gradually
Circle One

1h. At any time did the object:
ae Change direction. be Change speed. c. Move behind something; Cloud,

House, Tree, de FElend with background. e. Decrease
Other

in size. f. Decrease in brightness. g. Move in front of something.

Other
15. When you first looked at the object, what direction were you facing?
16. ‘When you last saw the object, what direction were you facing?
17. In the following Sketch A, draw lines
from the observer's eye to the circular

arc to show ths apparent elevation of the

Directly
object in the sky. Overhead
A. When first seen, label a.
B. When last seen, label b.
Coserver's Heriz-n
rye

SKETCH A

262

18. On the following Sketch B, label a at
the apparent position of the object

when first seen and b at point last

Overhead
seen. Trace the apparent path of
the object between points a and b.
If possible label 1, 2, 3, etc., —_
along the traced path to show the
successive positions of the object __0
Horizon Observer's Horizon
after ecual intervals of time dur- hye
ing the sighting. SKETCH B
19. In Sketch C please show the
’ observed features of the object
such as;
A. Apparent shape, (were edges
pointed or rounded),
Be Apparent direction of motion
(show by arrow), and
G. Other details, exhaust, trails,
tails, surfaces, etc. SKETCH ©

20+. The sun and the mcon are shown below as they appear in their correct relative

size. In this sketch D, show the apparent size cf what you saw.

SUN OBJECT MOON

SKETCH D -

263

22. Your full name:

23. Your address:

2h. Your occupation:

25. Last school you attended:

26. Year of last attendance at this school:

ef. lease list the names and addresses of persons who discussed this sighting

with you. Jt is not necessary to list the names of officials or investigators.

28. Further comments which you believe are important should be entered here.

Use additional sheets of the same siz: if necessary.

265 and 266

TENTATIVE
OBSERVERS QUESTIONNAIRE

SECTION A

When did you see the object:

1.1 Date:
Day Month Year
1.2 Time of Day: A.M. or P.M. (Circle One)
Hrs. Min.

1.3 Time Zone: (Circle One):
a. Eastern d. Pacific
b. Central e. Other
Co Mountain

(Circle One): a. Daylight Saving
b. Standard

1.4 Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you are of
your answer to the above question 1.2:

ae Certain ce. Not very sure
b. Fairly certain ad. Just a guess

Where were you when you saw the object:

Postal Address City or Town State Country

Additional Remarks:

Where were you located when you saw the object:

(Circle One): a. Inside a building 4d. In an airplane
b. Ina car e. At sea
c. Outdoors f. Other

3.1 Were you:

(Circle One): a. In the business section of a city?
b. In the residential section of a city?
ce In open countryside?
d. Flying near an airfield?
ee Flying over a city?
f£. Flying over open country?

269

How did you happen to notice the object?

he on
5. When did you report to some official that you had seen the object?
Day Month Year
SECTION B
6. What were you doing at the time you saw the object?

6.1 What had you been doing for the 30 minutes before you saw the object?
Try to list the activity or activities and the approximate amount
of time spent on each.

7. Were you moving at any time while you saw the object? (Circle One):
IF you answered YES, then complete the following questions:
7.1 What direction were you moving?
(Circle One): a. North e. South
b. Northeast f. Southwest
Co East Go West
a. Southeast h. Northwest
7.2 How fast were you moving? miles per hour.
7.3 Did you stop at any time while you were looking at the object?
(Circle One): Yes or No
8, What direction were you looking when you first saw the object?

(Circle One): a. North e. South
b. Northeast f. Southwest
c. East g- West
a. Southeast he Northwest
270

8,1 What direction were you looking when the object disappeared?

(Circle One):

8.2 Circle one of the

ae North
b. Northeast
c. East

d. Southeast

ee
Be

South
Southwest
West
Northwest

following to indicate how certain you are of

your answer to the above question and preceding question (8 and

a. Certain
b. Fairly certain

Ce

Not very sure
Just a guess

9. Were you wearing eye glasses when you saw the object? (Circle One):

Yes or No

10. How was the object seen?

(Circle One): a.

Co

Through window glass
Through windshield
Through binoculars

11. What do you remember about the weather conditions at the time you saw the

object?

11.1 CLOUDS (Circle One)

ae
Ce
ee

11.2 WIND (Circle One)

dad. Through telescope

Clear sky

Hazy

Scattered clouds
Thick or heavy clouds
Don't remember

ee
Bo
he

11.3 WEATHER (Circle One)

Ge
be
Co
Ce

Through theodolite
Through sunglasses
Through open space
Other

Dry

Fog, Mist, or light rain
Moderate or heavy rain
Snow

Don't remember

11.4 TEMPERATURE (Circle One)

a. Wo wind ae Cold
be Slight breeze be Cool
ec. Strong wind Cc. Warm
d. Don't remember de. Hot
ee Don't remember
SECTION C
12. Estimate how long you saw the object?
Hours Minutes Seconds

12.1 Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you are of your
answer to Question 12:

‘ae Certain c. Not very sure
b. Fairly sure d. Just a guess

13. Did the object look: (Circle One) Solid oor Transparent
Ik. Did the object at any time:

(Circle One for each question)

14.1 Change direction? Yes No Don't know
14.2 Change speed? Yes No Donit know
14.3 Change size? Yes No Don't know
ly.) Change color? Yes No Don't know
14.5 Break up into parts or Yes No © Don't_ know
explode? ee
14.6 Give off smoke? Yes No Don't know
1h.7 Change brightness? Yes No © Don't know
14.8 Flicker, throb, or Yes No Don't know
pulsate?
1.9 Kemain motionless? Yes No Don't know

15. Did the object give off a light? (Circle One): Yes No Don't know
| 15.1 IF you answered YES, what was the color of the light?
16. Tell in a few words the following things about the object?
16.1 Sound
16.2 Color
17. IF there was MORE THAN ONE object, then how many were there?

Draw a picture of how they were arranged and put an arrow to show the
direction they were traveling.

18. Did the object at any time:
18.1 Move behind something? (Circle One) Yes No Don't know

IF you answered YES, then tell what it moved behind.

18.2 Move in front of something? (Circle One) Yes No Don't know

IF you answered YES, then tell what it moved in front of.

18.3 Blend with the background? (Circle One) Yes No Don't know

19. Which of the following objects is about the same actual size as the object
you saw? (Circle One):

ae Pea f. Automobile

b. Baseball ge Small airplane
ce Basketball h. Large airplane
d. Bicycle wheel i. Dirigible

e. Office desk je Other

19.1 Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you are of your
answer to Question 19.

a. Certain c. Not very sure
b. Fairly certain d. Uncertain

20. Try to tell the following things about the object:

20,1 How high above the earth was it? feet.
20.2 How far was it from you? feet or miles.
20.3 How fast was it going? miles per hour.

20.4 Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you are of your
answer to the above questions:

a. Certain ce. Not very sure
b. Fairly certain d. Just a guess

21. How did the object disappear from view?

(Circle One): a. Suddenly ec. Other
b. Gradually de Don't remember

SECTION D

22e In the following sketch, imagine your eye at the point shown. Place an "A"
on the curved line to show how high the object was above the horizon
(skyline) when you first sau ite Place a "B" to show there it was when
you last saw ite

Ove head

x Horizon

23. In the following sketch place an "A" at the position the object was when
you first saw it, anc a "B" at its position when you last saw it.

Overhead

You

2h. Draw a picture that will show the motion that the object made. Place an
tA" at the beginning of its path and a "Bt" at the end of its path.

25. Draw a picture that will show the shape of the object. Label and include
in your sketch any details of the object that you saw and place an arrow
beside the drawing to show the direction the object was moving.

274

276

SECTION E
Was this the first time that you have seen an object like this?

(Circle One): Yes or No

26.1 IF you answered NO, then when, where, and under what conditions did
you see other ones?

eS

In your opinion what do you think the object was and what might have caused

Give the following information about yourself:

Last Name First Name Middle Name

ADDRESS —
Street City zone State

TELEPHONE NUMBER

What is your present job?

Age

Sex

Was anyone else with you at the time you saw the object?
(Circle One): Yes or No
29.1 IF you answered YES, did they see the object too?
(Circle One): Yes or No

29.2 Please list their names and addresses:

275

U. Ss. AIR FORCE TECHNICAL INFORMATION SHEET

This questionnaire has been prepared so that you can give the U. S. Air Force as much
information as possible concerning the unidentified aerial phenomenon that you have observed.
Please try to answer as many questions as you possibly can. The information that you give will
be used for research purposes, and will be regarded as confidential material. Your name will not
be used in connection with any statements, conclusions, or publications without your permission.
We request this personal information so that, if it is deemed necessary, we may contact you for
further details.

. When did you see the object? 2. Time of day: ae
Hour Minutes
Day Month (Circle One): A.M. or P.M.
3. Time zone:
(Circle One): a. Eastern (Circle One): a. Daylight Saving
b. Central b. Standard
c. Mountain
d. Pacific
e. Other
4, Where were you when you saw the object?
Nearest Postal Address City or Town State or Country

Additional remarks:

Estimate how long you saw the object. ee
Hours Minutes Seconds

5.1 Circle one of the following to indicate how certain you are of your answer to Question 5.

a. Certain c. Not very sure
b, Fairly certain d. Justa guess

6. What was the condition of the sky?

(Circle One): a. Bright daylight d. Just a trace of daylight
b. Dull daylight e. No trace of daylight
c. Bright twilight f, Don't remember

7. IF you saw the object during DAYLIGHT, TWILIGHT, or DAWN, where was the SUN located as you looked at:

the object?
(Circle One): a. In front of you d. To your left
b. In back of you e. Overhead
c. To your right f. Don’t remember
279

IF you saw the object at NIGHT, TWILIGHT, or DAWN, what did you notice concerning the STARS and MOON?

8.1 STARS (Circle One): 8.2 MOON (Circle One):
Bright moonlight

- None a.
. Afew b. Dull moonlight

. Many c. No moonlight — pitch dark

. Don’t remember d. Don’t remember

Was the object brighter than the background of the sky?

(Circle One): a. Yes b. No c. Don’t remember

IF it was BRIGHTER THAN the sky background, was the brightness like that of an automobile headlight?:

(Circle One) a. A mile or more away (a distant car)?

b. Several blocks away?

c. Ablock away?
d. Several yards away?

Did the object: (Circle One for each question)
a. Appear to stand still at any time? Yes No Don't Know
b. Suddenly speed up and rush away at any time? Yes No Don’t Know
c. Break up into parts or explode? Yes No Don’t Know
d. Give off smoke? Yes No Don’t Know
e. Change brightness? Yes No Don't Know
f. Change shape? Yes No Don’t Know
g. Flicker, throb; or pulsate? Yes No Don’t Know

Did the object move behind something at anytime, particularly a cloud?

(Circle One): Yes No Don’t Know. IF you answered YES, then tell what
it moved behind:

Did the object move in front of something at anytime, particularly a cloud?

(Circle One): Yes No Don't Know. IF you answered YES, than tell what
it moved in front of: _

Did the object appear: (Circle One): a. Solid? b. Transparent? c. Don’t Know.

Did you observe the object through any of the following?

a. Eyeglasses Yes No e. Binoculars Yes No
b. Sun glasses Yes No f. Telescope Yes No
c. Windshield Yes No g. Theodolite Yes No
d. Window glass Yes No h. Other

280

16. Tell in a few words the following things about the object.

a. Sound

b. Color

17. Draw a picture that will show the shape of the object or objects. Label and include in your sketch any details
of the object that you saw such as wings, protrusions, etc., and especially exhaust trails or vapor trails. Place
an arrow beside the drawing to show the direction the object was moving.

18. The edges of the object were:

(Circle One): a. Fuzzy or blurred e. Other _
b. Like a bright star
c. Sharply outlined
d. Don’t remember

19. IF there was MORE THAN ONE object, then how many were there? —-- ————SSSSSSSSSSSSS
Draw a picture of how they were arranged, and put an arrow to show the direction that they were travel ing.

281

20. Draw a picture that will show the motion that the object or objects made. Place an “A” at the beginning
of the path, a “B” at the end of the path, and show any changes in direction during the course.

21. IF POSSIBLE, try to guess or estimate what the real size of the object was in its longest dimension.
feet.

22. How large did the object or objects appear as compared with one of the following objects held in the hand

and at about arm’s length?
(Circle One): a. Head of a pin g. Silver dollar
b. Pea h. Baseball
c. Dime i. Grapefruit
d. Nickel j. Basketball
e. Quarter k. Other
f. Half dollar
22.1 (Circle One of the following to indicate how certain you are of your answer to Question 22.
a. Certain c. Not very sure
b, Fairly certain d. Uncertain

23. How did the object or objects disappear from view?

In order that you can give as clear a picture as possible of what you saw, we would like for you to imagine that you could
construct the object that you saw. Of what type material would you make it? How large would it be, and what shape
would it have? Describe in your own words a éommon object or objects which when placed up in the sky would give the

same appearance as the object which you saw.

282

. Where were you located when you saw the object? 26. Were you (Circle One)
(Circle One):
. In the business section of a city?
a. Inside a building . In the residential section of a city?
b. Ina car « In open countryside?
c. Outdoors « Flying near an airfield?
d. {nan airplane . Flying over a city?
e. At sea Flying over open country?

f. Other . Other

What were you doing at the time you saw the object, and how did you happen to notice it?

IF you were MOVING IN AN AUTOMOBILE or other vehicle at the time, then complete the following questions:

28.1 What direction were you moving? (Circle One)

a. North c. East e. South g. West
b. Northeast d. Southeast f. Southwest -h. Northwest

28.2 How fast were you moving? __.__ soilless: per hour,

28.3 Did you stop at any time while you were looking at the object?
(Circle One) Yes No

. What direction were you looking when you first saw the object? (Circle One)

a. North c. East e. South g. West
b. Northeast d. Southeast f. Southwest h. Northwest

. What direction were you looking when you last saw the object? (Circle One)

a. North c. East e. South g. West
b. Northeast d. Southeast f. Southwest h. Northwest

. I you are familiar with bearing terms (angular direction), try to estimate the number of degrees the object was
from true North and also the number of degrees it was upward from the horizon (elevation).

31.1 When it first appeared:

a. From true North ss degrees.

31.2 When it disappeared:

b. From horizon. degrees.

283

32. In the following sketch, imagine that you ore at the point shown. Place an “A” on the curved line to show how
high the object was above the horizon (skyline) when you first saw it. Place a “B” on the same curved line to
show how high the object was above the horizon (skyline) when you /ast saw it.

33. In the following larger sketch place an “A” at the position the object was when you first saw it, and a “B” at its
position when you /ast saw it. Refer to smaller sketch as an example of how to complete the larger sketch.

284

34. What were the weather conditions at the time you saw the object?

34,1 CLOUDS (Circle One) 34.2 WIND (Circle One)
a. Clear sky a. No wind
b. Hazy b. Slight breeze
c. Scattered clouds , c. Strong wind
d. Thick or heavy clouds d. Don’t remember
e. Don’t remember

34,3 WEATHER (Circle One) 34.4 TEMPERATURE (Circle One)
a. Dry a. Cold
b, Fog, mist, or light rain b. Cool
¢, Moderate or heavy rain c. Warm
d. Snow d. Hot
e. Don't remember Don’t remember

35. When did you report to some official that you had seen the object?

Month Year

Day

36. Was anyone else with you at the time you saw the object?

(Circle One) Yes No

36.1 IF you answered YES, did they see the object too?
(Circle One) Yes No

36.2 Please list their names and addresses:

37. Was this the first time that you had seen an object or objects like this?

(Circle One) Yes No

37.1 IF you answered NO, then when, where, and under what circumstances did you see other ones?

38. In your opinion what do you think the object was and what might have caused it?

285

39. Do you think you can estimate the speed of the object?

(Circle One) Yes No

IF you answered YES, then what speed would you estimate?

. Do you think you can estimate how far away from you the object was?
(Circle One) Yes No

IF you answered YES, then how far away would you say it was?

. Please give the following information about yourself:

NAME

Last Name First Name

ADDRESS

Street

TELEPHONE NUMBER
What is your present job?
Age ___ Sex

Please indicate any special educational training that you have had.

Grade school _. —s—“CSsSs tw e.s« Technical schol

b. High school —. (Type)

. College f. Other special training

. Post graduate

, Date you completed this questionnaire:

286

Middle Name

U. S. AIR FORCE TECHNICAL INFORMATION SHEET
(SUMMARY DATA)

In order that your information may be filed and coded as accurately as possible, please use
the following space to write out a short description of the event that you observed. You may re-
peat information that you have already given in the questionnaire, and add any further comments,

' statements, or sketches that you believe are important. Try to present the details of the observa-
tion in the order in which they occurred, Additional pages of the same size paper may be attached

if they are needed.

(Do Not Write in This Space)
CODE:

(Please Print)

SIGNATURE

DATE

287

CODE 1. GENERAL

a. Every column must have at least one entry. If no data are
available for any column, the Y should be used.

b. If a number in any column is used to enter data, then X

qualifies the data as indicated in the Code for the specific
column.

CODE 25 DURATION UNITS CODE 28 LATITUDE CODE 32 LONGITUDE

X X South latitude X East longitude
Y Y Y
O Days 0 )
1 Hours 1 1
2 Minutes 2 2
3 Seconds 3 3
4 4 4
5 5 5
6 6 6
7 7 7
8 8 8
9 9 9
DE 41 POSITION DE_42.M0 OF OBSERVER
X Variable x
Y Y
e) O Wasn't moving
1 In car 1 Was moving - stopped
2 Outdoors 2 Was moving - didn't stop
3 In plane 3 .
4 In building 4
5 5
6 6
7 7
8 8
9 Other 9

291

CODE OBSERVATION METHOD ODE SOUND

X Variable X Variable

Y Y

O Naked eye O Motors

1 Eye glasses 1 Jet or rockets

2 Window 2 Explosion

3 Windshield 3 Unlike aircraft

4 Binocular 4 Hiss, swishing, whining

5 Telescope 5 Rumbling

6 Theodolite 6 Humming or buzzing

7 Radar 7 None

8 Photographic 8 Not stated

9 Other 9 Other
CODE 45 COLOR CODE 46 NUMBER DE LIG
X Variable x X Variable
Y Y Y
O Metallic O-1 0 White
1 Light~glow~luminous 1-2 1 Black
2 Red 2-3 2 Grey
3 Orange 3-4 3 Red
4 Yellow 4-5 4 Orange
5 Green 5-6 5 Yellow
6 Bilve 6-7- 10 6 Green
7 Violet 7-11 - 20 7 Blue
8 Black 8 - 20 - 30 8 Violet
9 White 9 - 31 or more 9 Other
CODE 48 SPEED CODE 49 SHAPE
X Variable X Variable
Y Y
O Hovering, stationary O Ellipse
1 Less than 100 m.p.h. 1 Rocket
2 100-400 m.p.h. 2 Conventional aircraft
3 More than 400 m.p.h. 3 Unconventional aircraft
4 Meteor like 4 Meteor, comet
5 Not stated 5 Lenticular
6 6 Conical
7 7 Tear drop
8 8 Flame, tails, fire
9 Other 9 Other

292

CODE 51 SUBTENDED VISUAL ANGLE
(Referred to_sun diameter )

CODE _50 SHAPE PARAMETER a/b

X ~ Variable

a « s @
go

e
AST

OO BTIMNUE WHY! OK
#eop8b tt tb bets
TOO RW Ye O

Decreased

Sunlight on mirror
Sunlight on aluminum
Sunlight on plaster
Sunlight on stone
Sunlight on soil
Brighter than moon
Like moon

Duller than moon
Barely visible

Other

OMDIAUE WAH OK

CODE 54 ANGULAR ACCELERATION
(Change in Angular Velocity)

Variable

Zero, V=constant
Increasing slowly
Decreasing slowly
Increasing fast
Decreasing fast
Increasing very fast
Decreasing very fast

O BAYA UHEW NY HO HS DS

CODE 52 LIGHT BRIGHTNESS (Intensity)

X = Decreased in size
Y

0 - 0.1

1 = 0.2

5 - 1.5

6 = 2.0

7 - 4.0

8 - 4.0 to 10.0
9 - Other

CODE _ 53 ANGULAR VELOCITY
Variable

Zero

Very slow, 1° per second

Slow, 3° per second

Moderate, 6° per second

Rapid, 12° per second

Very fast, 30° per second
Extremely fast, 90° per second
More than 90° per second

WO OIRUEWNHHOK MH

Other

CODE 55 APPEARANCE BEARING

OONTIBOUNE WHY OK
feet! perees

CODE 57-58 ELEVATION
CODE 56 DISAPPEARANCE BEARING WITH RESPECT TO GROUND, DEGREES

X ~ Disappeared suddenly
XY

1 - NE

3 - SE

5 = SW

- NW

OBNAUE WA HO HB

CODE 61 OBJECT ORIENTATION
Apparent inclination of principal

axis of object from horizontal

Initial Final
Variable X Variable
Y
0-9 0 Q-9
10-19 1 10-19
20-29 2 20—29
30=39 3 30+39
40-49 4 40-49
50-59 § 50-59
60-69 6 60-69
W=-T9 7 WT79
80-89 8 80-89
9

QDE 62-63-64 CIVILIAN OCCUPATION

X Variable Dictionary of Occupational Titles,
Y Vol. II, 2nd Edition, pp. XIX-XXVI.
0 +90 to 60 U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of
1 +60 to 30 Employment Security. U.S. Government
2 #30 to 10 Printing Office, Washington, D. C., 1949.
3 +10 to O See pp. XIX~-XXVI.
4 0
5 0 to -10
6 -10 to -30
7 +-30 to -60
8 -60 to -90
9

CODE 65 SERVICE ; CODE 66 DUTY

xX X

Y Y

QO Arny O Pilot

1 Navy 1 Weather tech.

2 Marine 2 Radar tech.

3 Air Force 3 Tower op.

4 Coast Guard 4 Balloon obs.

5 Merchant 5 Tech. spec.

6 Commercial Air 6 Guards, lookouts

7 CAA 7 Ground or deck crews

8 Gov't. Contractor 8 Navig. or bombardier

9 Other 9 Other

294

q

CODE 67 RANK EQUIVALENT CODE 76 EVALUATION OF OBSERVER RELIABILITY
X Officer x x
Y Y
O Lt. 2nd O Private O Complete
1 Lt. lst 1 Private, lst Cls. 1 Quite
2 Capt. 2 Corp. 2 Fair
3 Maj. 3 Serg. 3 Doubtful
4 lt. Col. 4 S. 1. Serg. 4 Poor
5 Col. 5 M. Serg. 5 Not
6 Brig, Gen. 6 Warrant Off. 6
7.Maj. Gen. 7 Chief Warrant 7
8 Lt. Gen. 8 8
9 General 9 9 Can't be judged
CODE 77 EVALUATION OF REPORT RELIABILITY CODE 78 PRELIMINARY IDENTIFICATION
x X Possibly
Y Y
O Complete O Balloon
1 Quite 1 Astronomical
2 Fair 2 Aircraft
3 Doubtful 3 Light phenomenon
4 Poor 4 Birds
5 Not 5 Clouds, dust, etc.
6 6 Rocket or missile
7 7 Psychological manifestations
8 8 Electromagnetic phenomenon
9 Can't be judged 9 Other

CODE 79-80 FINAL IDENTIFICATION

WO MDIABANHE WD HH Or bs

Probably

Balloon

Astronomical

Aircraft

Light Phenomenon

Birds

Clouds, dust, etc.

Reeket-or-missiie Insufficient information
Psychological manifestations
Eleetremagnetie-pkenemenen Unknown

Other

295 and 296

WORK SHEET
Observer's
Data Punched
Sheet Card
Question Column Code Description
2 Incident serial
3 Serial No. number
h
nnn
6 Serial No. Insertion
7
8 Day
9
le 10 Month
11
12 Year Observed
13
1h Day
15
26 16 Month Reported
17
18 Day
19
20 Month Rec'd ATIC
aL
22 Hrs. Time of observation
23 Greenwich C. T.
36 2h Min.
o0% Time Units Duration of
26 observation
he 27 Duration
29
30
31 Latitude
33
3h Location
5. . 35
36 Longitude
37
38
39
ho Cosine latitude

* Denotes separate code key is needed.

299

Observer's ©
Data Punched
Sheet Card
Question Column Code Description
6. his Where observer was
Te or Moving - Stopped
10... 3% How observed
12a. % Sound
Loc. yo* Color
12e, or Number
12. Log. Live Light-color Appearance
12ie lub. )O% Speed Description
12b. 19 Yo* Shape
12b. 19 O* a/b
12d. lye.20 51% Size
Left. lyf. 52% Light brightness
53% Angular velocity
hh. 12h. 1h. 18. 19 She Angular acceleration Motion
1S. i Describe appearance
13. ly. 16 BO% Describe disappearance
7% Initial elevation
17. a Final elevation Elevation
9
124. 21. 60 Altitude, 1000 ft. Altitude
____ LBs 19. 61% Object orientation
Ox
63
he 6h Civilian occupation
Observer
2he ; 67% Service occupation
69
70
71
72
73
7h
75
ee s~C~C*Ci SI Observer
Tie ””sCORe port Evaluation
7B% (oe CPrediminary
oe Identification
80% Final

* Denotes separate code key is needed.

300

CODES

CODE 1. GENERAL

a. These cards (and the corresponding WORK SHEETS) contain data from
several sources. Columns referenced to the U, S, Air Force Technical
Information Sheet (Form A) must have at least one entry. If no data
are available for any column, the Y (or 12 punch) should be used.

bd. Columns 22, 23, 2h, 25, 26, 36, 37, 38, 39, WO, i, 42, 43, Ub, 4S,
46, 47, 48, 49, 50, and 51 are calculated from data appearing in the
U, S, Air Force Technical Information Sheet (Form A). If the basic
data for these calculations are not available, the appropriate columns
are left blank,

c, If a number in any column is used to enter data, then X (or 11 punch)
qualifies the data as indicated in the Code for the specific column,

CODE 7 SIGHTING IDENTIFICATION

(fais column may or may not CODE 22 LOCAL SUN TIME
contain multiple punches) (Refers to date of G.C.T,. observation)

X x

Y Y

0 O Same day

1 All sightings 1 Previous day

2 Unit sightings, all observers 2

3 Unit sightings, single observers 3

4 Unit sightings, multiple observers 4

5 Object sightings 5

6 6

7 7

8 8

9 9

CODE 23-26 LOCAL SUN TIME
(Calculated from G.C.T.,
date, latitude, and longitude) CODE 27 LATITUDE CODE 31 LONGITUDE

X South Latitude X East Longitude

0 0
1 1
2 2
3 3
rn \
5 5
6 6
7 7
8 8
9 9
303

Punched .
U. S. Air Force Technical Card
Information Sheet Question Column Code Description

39
LQ Hour
yl Angle
ox
Lae Angle of
Lh Elevation
2 of the
Sun
1S Group Chassification
i} Bearing
50 Angle
eT ”ss”s~=“‘™OCOCOC MG Units

23 Duration
a Group Classification

15. 56% How Observed

16a. o7T# Sound

16b. 50% Object Color

16d. Lie or Light Color Physical
60H Color Group

Classification

19. 61% Number

lla. lib. 39. 623 Speed

17. 10. 2b. 63% Shape Description

Tif. 21. 226 Ole lye Size

LO, lie. 65# Light Brightness

Ge lle lis 20. 56% Angular Velocity Motion

33. 7 Angular Acceleration
29. 31. 1. Gone Appearance Bearin
23. 30, 31. 2. 69% Disappearance Bearing

70% Initial Elevation . ae
31. 32, Fie Final Elevation Description
TG ”S”CS”CSCientation
NOUV ELS
Lie 73 Observer Occupation
75% Observer Rating Observer
76% eport Ratin
11% Reliability Group
Classification
7% Final Identification

* Denotes that separate code key is needed,
304

Po

5. of Observation i

CODE 48-51 SUN BEARING ANGLE
| CODE 47 GROUP CLASSIFICATION (Calculated)
(Derived from the angle of elevation) CODE 51 SUN BEARING ANGLE
| X X East of the Meridian
Y e4
6) 0
| 1 +79.99° to + 79.99° 1
2 +80,00° to +89,99° 2
3. +90.00° to +100.00° 3
| h +100.01° to 130.,00° L
5 +130.01° to +180.00 and -180,00° to -100. o1° 5
6 «100.00° to -90,01° 6
| 7 90.00° to -80,00° 7
8 8
i 9 9
i CODE 52 DURATION TIME UNITS CODE 55 DURATION GROUP CLASSIFICATION
X x
x XY
| O Days O 5 second and less
1 Hours 1 6 = 10 seconds
2 Minutes 2 11 - 30 seconds
| 3 Seconds 3 31 - 60 seconds
4 lh 61 seconds - 5 minutes
5 5 6 - 30 minutes
| 6 6 Over 30 minutes
7 7
8 8
i 9 9
| CODE 56 OBSERVATION METHOD CODE 57 SOUND ' CODE 58 OBJECT COLOR
X Variable X Variable X Variable
i Y Y Y
Q Naked eye O Motors Q Metallic
1 Eye glasses 1 Jets or rockets 1 Light, glow, luminous
| 2 Window 2 Explosion 2 Red
3 Windshield 3 Unlike aircraft 3 Orange
4 Binocular , Hiss, swishing, whining Yellow
| 5 Telescope 5 Rumbling '  § Green
6 Theodolite 6 Humming or buzzing 6 Blue
7 Radar 7 None 7 Violet
| 8 Photographic 8 8 Black
9 Other 9 Other 9 White
i 305

CODE 59 LIGHT COLOR
Variable

White
Black
Grey
Red
Orange
Yellow
Green
Blue
Violet
Other

SO ON HAUIE WN FO FF PS

CODE 62 SPEED
Variable

Hovering, stationary
Less than 100 mph
100 - 00 mph

More than 400 mph
Meteor-like

Not stated

O OA AME WN Fe O Hd Dd

Other

CODE 65 LIGHT BRIGHTNESS (Intensity)

Decreased

Sunlight on mirror
Sunlight on aluminum
Sunlight on plaster
Sunlight on stone
Sunlight on soil
Brighter than moon
Like moon

Duller than moon
Barely visible

Other

WO OANA AWN EW OH OK bd

CODE 60 COLOR GROUP CLASSIFICATION

CODE 61 NUMBER

X Light glow x
Y XY
QO White oe §
1 Metallic 1 2
2 Red 2 3
3 Orange 3 4
h Yellow 4h 5
5 Green 5 6
-6 Blue 6 7-10
7 Violet 7 11-20
8 Black 8 21-30
9 Other 9 31 or more
CODE 64 SUBTENDED VISUAL ANGLE
CODE 63 SHAPE (Referred to sun diameter)
Variable X Decreased in size
Y
Ellipse 0 0.1
Rocket 1 0.2
Conventional aircraft 2 0.5
Unconventional aircraft 3 0.75
Meteor, comet kh 1.0
Lenticular 5 1.5
Conical 6 2.0
Teardrop 7 4.0
Flame, tails, fire 8 4.0 to 10.0
Fire 9 Other

CODE 66 ANGULAR VELOCITY
Variable

Zero

Very slow, 1° per second

Slow, 3° per second

Moderate, 6° per second

Rapid, 12° per second

Very fast, 30° second
Extremely fast, 90° per second
More than 90° per second

NO ON OUI WN HO FS PS

Other

306

CODE 67 ANGULAR ACCELERATION

(Change in angular velocity) CODE 68 APPEARANCE BRARING
X Variable X

YX Y

0 Zero, V = constant. Oo N
1 Increasing slowly 1 NE
2 Decreasing slowly 26:
3 Increasing fast 3 «SE
lh Decreasing fast 4 os
5 Increasing very fast 5 sw
6 Decreasing very fast 6 W
7 7 NW
8 8

9 9

CODE 70-71 ELEVATION

CODE 69 DISAPPEARANCE BEARING WITH RESPECT TO GROUND, DEGREES
X Disappeared suddenly Initial Final
Y
ON X Variable X Variable
1 Ne Y Y
2k O 0-9 O 0-9
3. Se 1 10-19 1 10-19
4 S 2 20-29 2 20-29
5 Sw 3 30-39 3. 30-39
6 W Lh hOo-g h omhg
7 MW 5 50-59 5 50-59
8 6 60-69 6 60-69
9 7 10-79 7 70-79
8 80-89 8 80-89
9 9

CODE 72 OBJECT ORIENTATION
Apparent inclination of principal
axis of object from horizontal CODE 73 MANEUVERS CODE 7 OBSERVER OCCUPATION

X Variable X Xx

4 3 3 Y Y Civilian, occupation rot stated
0 +20 - to 60° 0 O Army, military

1 +60° to 30 1 1 Navy, military

2 +30° to 10° 2 2 Marine, military

3 +10° to 0° 3 3 Air force, military

4 0° hu Coast guard, military

5 0° to -10° 5 5 Merchant marine, military

6 ~-10° to ~30° 6 6 Commercial air, civilian

7 ~30° to -60° 7 7 CAA, civilian

8 -60° to -90° 8 8 Government contractor, civilian
9 9 9 Civilian, other

DE 75 EVALU.TION OF OBSERVER RS LIABILITY

Complete
Quite
Fair
Doubtful
Poor

Not

NO BON AME WW pF O HK PS

Cannot be judged

CODE 77 RELIABILITY GROUP CLASSIFICATION
(Based on observer and report ratings)

Excellent (Observer O or 1 and Reoort O or 1)

Good (Observer 0 or 1, Report 2, 3, or h;
Observer 2, 3, or k, Report O or 1; Observer
2, Report 2)

Doubtful (Observer O or 1, Report 5 or 93
Observer 2, Report 3, h, 5, or 93 Observer
3 or kh, Report 2, 3, h, 5, or 93 Observer 5
or 9, Report 0, 1, 2, 3, or k)

Poor (Observer 5, 9, or Y, Report 5, 9, or Y)

308

CODE 76 EVALUATION OF RiPORT RELIABILITY

Complete
Quite
Fair
Doubtful
Poor
Not

SO ON AU EW NF O FS bd

Cannot be judged

CODE 78 FINAL IDENTIFICATION
Probably

Balloon

Astronomical

Aircraft

Light phenomenon

Birds

Clouds, dust, etc,
Insufficient information
Psychological manifestations
Unknown

Other

O ON AMUE WMF Of P<

CARD BIBLE

#% Denotes that separate code key is needed,

Card Deck No. is identified by an X (or 11 Punch) in Colum __.

i Punched
U. S. Air Force Technical Card
| Information Sheet Question Column Code Description
1
| 2 Serial
3 No, Identification
k Serial
| 5 Number
6 Serial No,
1 Sighting Identification
i 9 Serial Incident
10 No. Serial
| 1 Number
12
13 D
es
15 Month Observed
Li
| 17 Year
) 15 Time of
19 Hours Observation
| 20 Greenwich
20 3s 21 Minutes Cc. T.
22% ey
| 23 Local
2h Hours Sun
Time
| 26 Minutes
| 29 Latitude
PE
31+ Location
| 32
he 33 Longitude
34
36% Regional Area
| 37 Strategic Area

Punched

U. S, Air Force Technical Card
Information Sheet Question Column Code Description

39
Re) Hour
kl Angle
ox
3% Angle of
Elevation
k of the
L6 Sun
Li Group Classification
ts) Sun
9, Bearing
50 Angle
51x
ox ime Units
Duration

of Observation

5h
ooe Group Classification
i. 56x (0) d

ae ca Sound
16d. Sox Object Color
6b. lle 3 Light Color Physical
60% Color Group
Classification
19 GL Number

17, 15. 2h. Shape Description

Vf, 21. 226 he Size
LO, lle, 65% Light Brightness
33. SE Angular Acceleration Motion
29. 31s le Ox Appearance Bearin
23. 30. 31. 2. S33 Disappearance Bearing
70% nitial Elevation + 4s
31. 32. ae inal Elevation Description
Tow Orientation
13% Maneuvers
le a Observer Occupation
15% Observer Rating Observer
7 eport Ratin
Tt* Reliability Group
Classification
7 inal Identification

* Denotes that separate code key is needed,
312

9T€e pue cite

JOQUINN 491205
JOQWAN [OlVesqns

koqg

Observed
Time

5S |o

7i 7

LS Sean

seeibaq
syspeoupunyy

beuy jouclBay

Daly 21Bayo1jys

Angle. of
Eleva-
tion of.

zs
eo
n
c
s

sooi60g
Sytpespunyy
dnoisy

Duration
of Obser-
vation

Sour] owt)
uo1s0sNG
dnoigy

a

44
ss

331313

444i4la qaiala gia a
foajac hep a Ber Bi Bp go 2
545 /5)5 BIN SIs 551515

biclajis tsfcayn

> fitece ta nfichobe

pap

Heaps aif fy
B22 2fo AB 2 2 afr c}2 0
233513 31Nl3.3 3 Mats als

qe

9 O70 09 oo CIB 6

& Zaft?

3313 31

vale ate af atya
GOI 2)2 2)2 2122

2728929 3C]31 32]33]

33 3/3 3

28529 SORS1 22; 33,55

Mr i

CISTPSE BE 4TPST 4,

45 4645 SEfA7/ 4

YOHD>IyWUep] BursyBiS

ABQUIAN [01495 suap!out

key
sinop

soynurw

Local

Sun

Time

S4yspeapun}|

Longi-

tud

ie

seei6oq

syuspoupunyy

Hour
Angle

oC
a |e
ra
a a
Sun Oo
Bear- bf
ing g
Angle! 3
Ee

punos
40jOD 44614

10}05 438199
dnoig s0j05

sOquinAN

peeds

edoys

erg

Ayyo0|a A s0jnBuy

aia
ws
s
a
Zto
wig
“Ilo
3

Bulipeg jorsuy

Buysoag esuninaddos 1g

UOHDASTA [OuUy

uorjoAs, A [DULY

U01;0,u2119

S1sAN@UOW

MoHDdns2Q9 10A105q0

AUD oy s9As98qQ

Ayyiqoijoy yodoy

Asnpiqosyey Bursy6is

uo!D91414UOP] [OUT J

pesnus) ~ yuo 1d

pesnufy — yuelg

quvo WdI NV dO DTIdWVXa

8d LIGIHXa