Approved for Release 2026

17 Decesiber 1953
MEMORANDUM TO: Assistant Director, Scientific Intelligence
FROM s Chief, Physics and Electronics Division, SI

SUBJECT : Current Status of Unidentified Flying Objects
(UFOB) Project.

1. In accordance with the verbal request of Mr. Brent, Exec/SI,
on 30 November, the following resume of the current status or unidenti-
fied flying objects activities has been prepared.

2. P&E Division assumed responsibility for the OSI project on
unldentified flying objects as a result of your memorandum of
27 May 1953. The project has been confiaed to maintaining awareness
of the activities of other agencies (notabl) the USAF) in the
unideatified flying objects business and to maintenance of files.
Status of Department of Defense Activities.

3s

a. Air Force. The Air Foree continues to aaintain, but with
apparently decreasing emphasis, its interest in UFOB's. The present
interest of the Directorate of Intelligence, Hq., USAF, is confined to
@ cursory cognizance of ATIC's project (Bluebook No. 10073). At ATIC
the project is carried by one officer (Capt. Charles A. Hardin), one
airman (A/1C Max G. Futch), and a secretary operating as tie Aerial
Phenomena Section of the Electronics Branch, Technical Analysis Division.
Ia spite of this limited staff, as well as several changes of project
officer, the project records appear to be up-to-date. ATIC personnel
no longer conduct field investigations of UFOB sightings (these are
requested from USAF intelligence officers [ primarily Air Defense
Command ani Airways and Air Communications Service) nearer to the
sightings), but confine their activities to receiving and checking
reports a5 received, requesting additional field investigation where
necessary, performing necessary checking against meteorological,
astronomical, aircraft and balloon data, and recording their findings
and conclusions in a cross-referenced system by date, location, source,
tyze of observation and conclusion draim. The Aerial Phenomena Section
also deals directly with the Public Information Office of Hq., USAF,
regarding information for public release. For about the past year,
approximately ten percent of the reported sightings have been tagged

as unsolved..

Of particular interest is the fact that ATIC is in the
process of transferring project Bluebook so Hq., Air Defense Command.
According to Lt. Col. Harry Johnston, Chief, Electronics Branch, the
reason for the transfer was that ADC had been doing most of the

43

Luvestigative werk of the project and "if it turns out that these
things (UFOB's) are space ships or long range aircraft from another
country, ADC is the (Air Force) Cosmund that would have to take
action.” Col. Johnston followed this comment with the somewhat
contradictory statement that the project transfer did not reflect
any change in Air Force policy. It ’s undoubtedly true that ADC

is the Aiz Force Command primarily concerned w!th UFOB's at the
present ime n tha’ their interceptors are occasionally dispatched
“aga net” reporied UFOB's and that their reporting stations and
com: nications sysc*ers are involved in a considerable portion or
the UFOB act vity. ATIC will maintain liaison with the project.

Approximately a year and one half ago ATIC initiated a
progran to purchase cameras for selected ADC radar sites and AACS
control .owers in locations where consistent UFOB reports were
rece ved n the hopes of photographing UFOB's. One lens of the
camera (a stereoscopic type) was to be covered with a simple grating
‘Oo record ihe spec!rographic neture of the UFOB photographed. One
yh odred 'Videon"” 35 mm. cameras with "stereon” anastigmat £ 3.5 lenses
vere purchased along with 100 gratings (15,000 line) from CENCO,
Chicago. %even y-four (74) cameras were distributed. N.nety percent
o° the gra ings have "gone bad"--.he actual grating separating ‘rom
the plast:c moun:ing plates. New gratings are expected shortly and
ATTC expec.s to recall all of the 74 distributed cameras and re-
eq: p them with the new gratings.

Several months ago we were advised that ATIC planned to
set np a conten'rated instrumentation observational e:fort in the
Slbuquerg.e arex. This has nov been dropped.

Pro‘eet STORK (SECR@!) has beenpreparing,at ATIC request
2 comprehensive s'a\is ical repor® on UFOB sigh ings during the
perfod 1947 -hro gh 1952. This study is now expected +o be completed
by 1 December 1953.

ATTC saues status reports on Project Bluebook on a tri-mnonthly
bisis the vost recent being Report No. 12 30 September 1953.

b. Navy. The Navy in spiie of press reports to the
con‘rary, is presently devoting only part of one ONI analyst's
time to maintsin'ng cogn’zance of UFOB's.

ec. Army. The Army has ev.denced little or no interest in
UFOB's other than cooperating with the Air Force in reporting sightings
and pert nent data using the Air Force format.

4, Tunvestigations or Interests of Foreign Governments.

a. Canada. Considerable attention in the U. 3. press was
recently given to reporis chat the Canadian Defence Research Board
and Departmen’ of Transport had jointly and officially established a

"laboratory" for recording observable phenomena connected with UFOB's.

Tt “s ‘nteresting to note that in his recently published book "Flying
Sa:cers From Outer Space” Mr. D. E. Keyhoe states that. a w#ilbur B.
Smith of the Canadian Department of Transport had been conducting
“saucer” investigations for three years before 1952, or beginning in
1oho. If Keyhoe is correct and it is the same Wilbur B. Smith

ment: oned in his book as in the recent press releases. one might

wonder why the matter hit the press four years late. It is, of course
qui-e possible tha: the press item was prompted by the information in _
Keyhoe's book. Several reports have been received
| tha! experiments on a flying saucer are actually being
conducted at A. V. Roe, Ltd., Toronto.

b. Grea’ Briiain. The subject of UFOB's was discussed
briefly dur’ ng his recent visit. He
stated tha’ since ; investigation of UFOB's or two and
one half years ago, initiated | |

the only British activity is the filing of reports as
received by the RAF.

c. Sweden.

\No further information
is available.

d. Other. Aside from a few scattered reports, mostly old,
which indicate interest in UFOB's by private individuals or groups,
there is no information of concern or inquiries of consequence in
other ‘oreign countries.

5- Results of OSI Panel Recommendations. The consultants who
considered this problem in January 1553 recommended that UFOB's be
stripped of special status and aura of mystery and that policies on
intelligence, training. and public education pertinent to true
‘ndieat.ons of hostile intent or action be prepared. The definite
drop in the nurber of "sightings" reported during 1953 over 1952
could be attrib.ted to actions following these recommendations. Two
recent books ("Flying Saucers From Outer Space” by Keyhoe and "Flying
Saucers Have Landed” by Leslie end Adariski) take full advantage of
“official” UFOB reports released by the Air Force to develop a central
theme that UFOB's are extraterrestrial in origin. Fortunately, the
later book 8 so nonsensical and obviously fraudulent that .t may
actvolly help calm down public reaction. These books do, however,
Lllustrate the risk taken by the present policy. There are no other
as yet apparen. res :lts of these recomrendations.

TODOS M. ODARENKO