UNITED STATES

ATOMIC ENERGY COMMISSION DECLASSIFIED

LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO
Authority:

ADDRESS REPLY TO:
NND 58378

MANAGER, SANTA FE DIRECTED OPERATIONS
U.S ATOMIC ENERGY COMMISSION

P. 0. BOX 1539

LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

AND REFER TO:
apy 4

we

Department of Energy Declasoification Review
DETERMINATION PORCLE NUMBe RuSy]
1. CLASSIFICATION AETAIRED
2. CLASSINCATAST CHANGED FO-
3. CONTAINS NO DOE CLASSIFIED IFO
4, COCRDMATE WaT

& CLASSPED WiFO GmacKETED
GOTHER SRECIEY):

DECLASSIFIED

our
OKT aaea pate 63 {goals

CONFERENCE
On
AERIAL PHENOMENA

Held at 1300, 16 Februaty 1949, in conference room P-162, Los Alamos Scientific
Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico. Present:

kth Aray: Major Winn
Major Godsee
Captain Reef

APSWP : Commanger Mendelkorn
University of New Mexico: LaPas
FBI;

UBAEC, SFOO:

University of California:

Mr. Rewburger opened the conference and stated that the subject of Aerial
Phenomena was olassified Secret within the meaning of AR 380-5 and comparable
appropriate regulations of the Nevy and Air Forces, and thst all personnel at
this meeting were properly cleared. Mr. Newburger then introduced Captain
Neef, who briefly outlined the purpose of thia meeting.

Ceptein Neef: It ali started back in December, 1946, when we first received

some reports from some airline pilots thet these green fireballs were sighted.

At this stage we had no idea what to do with it or what it was. We approached

Dr. LaPaz who has been agsisting us, gratis, since that date. Almost over two
months now that he has been assisting us, so in order to have you get the facts *—
as they ave to a scientist, T'1k let Dr. laPaz explain these things as we have “
found them. Then you can give us your opinion from there; that is what we ere bod
interested in.

Dr. LaPez: I would like to review what is observed in the ease of a conven-
tional meteorite fall. Hot that I have any hopes of saying anything you don’t
already imow, but because I regard the observational evidence observed by the
conventional meteorite falls as providing the necessary background for what is
now observed. Meteorite felis (for next mimete or two, Dr. LaPas’s coments

on record érowned out by noise from ditch digger immediately ontside conference
POOM) -.+++- Because of sound phenomena primarily, the fall of a large
meteorite will cauge great fright among human beings necessarily but primarily
among animals, of all kinds. The fact follows, by 2 meteorite falling into the

DECLASSIFIED ~.

Authority 53278
By KT | WARA Date fe/ 3/2086

nc -
SORT TIER SS77

Conference on AERIAL PHENOMEITA Page 11

oe eee, ome

Captein Neef: Well, it's one of those things; it's a Navy contract and they
are not at liberty to divulge what they find, so we have to go through
Washington, the Bureau of Ordnance, to get the information.

Comair. Mandelkorn: I believe I can get that information; as a matter of fact P
I feel very certain that I can. Just a matter of approach.

x. LaPag: I feel certein if I had contacted Dr. Fred Whipple, for example,
could have obtained it, but his other occupations keep him away from that
nstallation. And actually I felt as « meteorist, it might be wise to have
SI appeal for information rether than to ask for it directly.

Captain Neef: They did tell us they weren't using films which vere going to
be susceptible to these colors.

Dy. LePez: But, of course, they ere making constant visual observations ani
if you were able to determine visual observations 100 miles from Los Alamos
don't reveal the occurrence of bright green firebslls, I think it would be
Significant. I don't kmow why they should avold the Southern-half of the

sate.

Comizr. Mandelkorn: Let us sey if these had been at extremely high altitudes,
they would have been visible from White Sands without any questicn.

Captain Neef: This one of the 30th definitely was visible from White Sands
because Commander Holloman 7 and his wife and one of his assistants and his
wife saw it from there.

Dr. LaPas: On the other hand, you have evidence like that of Professor Talbot 7
mw in charge of the optical trajectory section down there, an ezperienced
astronomer, & member of the American Meteor Society. I talked with him about
this, ani he has observed nothing out of the ordinary. I don"t think anybody,

i mean in the line of green fireballs, in this srea kas been observing as
much as le does. I don’t see how he could miss sighting some of these.

Question: What explanation do you heave for this?
33 3

Dr. LaPaz: The only explanation is the one I gave in the beginning and had my
eare promptly boxed for. I think these are defensive menoetvers of same
higher U 5S. Command and they are practising in the neighborhood or the regions
they are going to defend, so naturally your localization of light near the
atomic bomb installations, but boy, am I scolded for that! Even Dr. Kaplen of
the FAD ? tells me no, no, the FAD would know all about it, and they don't
heve any facts.

Dr. Bradbury: Is this the physicist Kaplan?

Dr. LaPeaz: Yes. Keplan is my old boss. Be was chief of the operational
analysis section when I was director there. During Kaplan's visit

Conference on AERIAL PHENOMENA Page 13

Dr. LaPaz: Whites chiefly. If you look closely and without interference from
outside lights, yellows, oranges and reds.

Dr. Bradbury: But it's apparently a yellowish<-green we're talking about here.
If you can see a bluish-green, you can also see yellows and whites.

De. LaPas: There is some defect, possibly in the vision, that requires a
tty high intensity in that yellow-green before it's noted in a meteor fell.

Sradoury: Looks like green?

Dr. LePaz: Yes it does, that’s perfectly trus. Now here's a peculiar property
of those yellow-green fireballs - some people will refer to them as red. The
only explanation that I can think of is they report afterwards that they see
whet is an exposure to a very green-bluilsh light rather than the light itself -
I don’t know if that is correct. And, incidentelly, due to your observation,

i don"t know how to explain the inability of meteor observers to report this
xvenegade color, but I simply kmow it doesn’t occur. You go through long lists,
like those of the American Meteor Society, you will find, I imagine, not 2 in
100 where a green is mentioned. Even in the case of the ? showers, where you
have large numbers of very bright colors ~- let me recall something that ell of
you must have seen. ‘ The . shower of October 9, 1946 - anyone here who saw
that? There were large numbers of extremely bright Pireballs at that time.
Kaplan himself recalled that they were blue, maybe blue-green, but never yellow
green. And I observed those wider very favorable circumstances - we were
flying at about 20,000 feet in a B29. We had no absorption effects at ali.
They definitely did not show hues of green.

Dr. Bradbury: You mentioned the noise problem also. The noise occurs only
when the meteor itself biews up, breaks up?

Dr. LaPaz: Mo, that isn't strictly true. You have, in addition to the hollow
sound, the mormal sound of the breakup of the ..... You have headwinds; you're
near the path. You get a real shock; for instance, we have apparently
broken up by that headwave, shock wave, in the case of the Norden County Falls.
And then from the turbulence and reflections all the way slong the path, you
will have e rumbling which may endure not for the matter of a tenth of ao
second, but for minutes, and they're yeal rough.

Dr. Bradbury: But these occur fairly close to the trajectory?

Dr. LaPag: No. In the case of the Norden County Falls again, they were heard
clear down to City. Shakes buildings that far away. The ..... Falls
were heard up to 300 miles from the point of impact.

. Bradbury: Large number of observations ..

Dr. LaPaz: Wo, there again I checked very carefully because I was concerned.
i am trying desperately to give « logical explanation to the absence of sound.

& rane re tr ree +
paomanrencmans eens
as

cee tt tee
< Toner eee

Gonference on ABRIAL PEIEIGMEIA  cenpcnstenenmemsnmciniuncee
FA an pera eden en eri arid

fmerican Meteor Society and all at once we began to get oaapore of
lerge mmbers of stationary Pireballs; not moving. The burst was there, but
no acition. Now one who observes normal conventional firebell fells is aware
of the fact that not 1 ovt of say 500 shows actual Pixity; there is always
motion. Se, this looks very, very strange. Of course, you eli lmow what
those stationary fireballs turned out to be. They were the self-destructive
devices on Japanese paper balloons operating. You had e hydrogen filled sphere
with a two-crowm mask of magnesium flash-light powler. Ani when the magnesium
and the hydrogen went off together, you could see it for a long way. We got
stetionery fireballs but they certainly were not meteoritic. My experience
since I was suspected of psychological epparitians at the time I veported these
stationsry fireballs to, for example, Dr. Kemplan,.my experience with .... led
me to be very cautious about taking my concern ..... but at the seme time I
feel that we shouldn't be too hasty in giving ea natural explenation to these
green fireballs.

Teller: ...-- but I would like to ask, these phenomena ere apperently
quite bright, more luminous than normal meteorites?

Dr. LePaz: Well, the January 30th one was; I wouldn't say that about the one
I gaw on December 12. That wes a very bright fireball, but not extraordinarily
IQs

Dy. Teller: What is the chance of getting pictures?

Dr. LaPaz: I refer to the one attempt that was mede on the night of December 19.
We set up a photegraplic patrol = the AESS, as you probably know, has been
interested in this problem. They brought a iot of speed graphics and so on
and set them up. Mr, Maxwell, a member of the group ...., and they were able,

| think the night before, to photograph a bright Geminate. But on the night of
the 19th nothing was observed. The next night. however, the night of the 20th
there was on incident which I believe might have been photographed, but by that
time the equipment had been disbanded and nothing was obtained. I should think,
with proper coverage, say 10 to 15%, of these should record themselves provided.
you do not use green insensitive .... and film such an the ....

Yeller: Is there any possibility of having « wide coverage of the sky
ggeread by a photo cell?

Dr
tri

Dy. LaPaz: YF have discussed that, for example with Dr. Reneger, who has been
very much interested in the apparatus, and his enswer is more or less in the
negative. I understand that Cornell University - Gartiine of Cornell ~ has
produced some sort of photo-electric triggering device which has been used in
this comection. I wrote him ebout it, asking for reprints or instructions,
but never received a reply.

Question: Do you think yon are going to Pind film sensitive to this green
color fast enough? We have some that can't be left out over 12 hours.....

Conference on AERIAL PHENOMENA Page 2

Dr. IaPaz: It should be possible The conventional meteor cannot be
photographed et the present time. The so-called meteorschuitis that Harvard
ollege ts now having produced at very great expense, they expect to go down
to the 4¥th ani possibly fainter. With one of those, a bright green fireball
might be photographed, but they are not available. .....

My. Bewburger: DBoes anybody mow if there were any experiments carried out
in Europe, prior to the war when our last best information came fran over
there, alpng this Line?

Dr. LaPaz: Not to my knowledge. I raised that question with Dr. Kaplan and
he gave me some rather surprising information. Dr. Keplan had attended the
TAU meetings in Syrla ? and the Russians had a lerge representation there.
Sufficiently large, as a matter of fect, to best down the proposal that the
IAU appoint an inmternetional committee to investigate the so-called .....
meteorite crater produced in the fall of 1947, February 12. On the contrary,
at the Osweld, I think 1% was, conference of the International Geophysical
Union, none of the Russian geophysicists were present. Kaplan's interpreta-
tion was that they feel so far shead of us that they didn't think they could
learn anything, and they were taking the precaution that no leak occurred.

Mr. Hewburger: Were the Germans experimenting in any phese that was possibly
comnected with 1%?

Dr. LePaz: ‘ell, they had the so-called stations in space ..... might have
some attachment to it.

Conds. Mandelkorn: You don't have any record of experiments.

Dr. LaPag: eo, no knowledge of experiments. ..... I have the belief that no
countgy in the world has there been meteoritics developed as it has in Russie
in recent years. Recently, the Academy of Solence of the USRR has been issuing
a so-called meteoritic, an extraordinary publication ~- very little work of the
caliber being done by the Russtans has been conducted in the United States.
Apperently, there it has big support; here, it is on individual matter. Until
we had some military interest in meteorifics, we were never able to found even
an institute in meteoritics in the United States. The one in New Mexico is an
outgrowth of application of meteoritics to determine, say, ballistic coefficients
for shells of unconventional. design like the proximity fuze shell with the radéio
in its nos¢, and that sort of thing. That’s where we got a start. Apparently,
the Russians got that earlier and have full-Fledged state support.

De. Holloway: How much intereat would the military bave if they found out
these things were lending ell over the country, Canidae, Hawaii, etc.? .....
Have you contacted people in the East?

Dr. LaPaz: Olivia, C. C. Olivia, President of the Americen Meteor Society,
King, Leonard, Pruitt, Kaplan, etc. Most of them have been observing;
Kaplen, I imagine, has not, because he is now preoceypied with laboratory

a

Conference on AERIAL PHENOMENA Page 21

experiments. I think that 1f anyone of the UCLA Institute of Geophysics had
been observing, it would have gotten to Kaplan's ears. There are two

great advantages to this area: first, you have clear skies at night and can
observe them as they come down, and second, {record blank for minute or two).

Dr. Holloway: this was before the war. ‘They had a telephone network
which covered a fair section of the Bast there. ..... a network so that your
observations I mention this to indicate, I don"t know what he is doing
now, but st least they may have a group of people who have been observing.
May not be in s position to ..... green fireballs, but they might have seen
them.

Dr. LePaz: My one attempt to contect ...-. and unfortunately I did not
approach him again for information, but someone acquainted with him should
certainly ask if they have observed any of this sort of thing there.

Comdr. Mendelkorn: Well, wouldn't phenomena of this nature have been reported
to the Society, no matter where they had occurred?

Dr. LePaz: Yes, J would think so. For exemple, you can consult the so-called
meteor notes of the American Meteor Society, and popular astronomy, they are
published from month to month with the President, C. C. Olivia, Director of

the Florida Observatory at the University of Pennsylvania. I've been through
those very carefully. ‘There‘s one single solitary case of a fireball which by
one of the observers ~ a doubly observed fireball - so it was possible for me

to .... im which one of the observers mentions a green color. Wot this peculiar
yellow-green which most people in that work find unusual, and in the case of that
the elevation determined is of the order of, oh 199 kilometera from the beginning
point and rqughly 100 for the end, so I think it is only an ordinary fireball;
nothing unususi about it. That wes the only case I found.

Comar. Mendelkorn: According to recent records, where the observation condi-
¢ions in other parts of the country satisfactory? At least part of the time?

Dr. LaPaz; Well, I infer from the fact that we have had so much trouble out
here and the Eagt has been bragging about its climatic advantages, that probably
during the recent months, they have hed good observancy. I haven't attempted a
full scale check on that.

Comdr. Mandelkorn: Let's put it this way then: Have there been a sufficient
number of fireballs reported in the lest! 60 days in other parts of the country
to lead us to infer that had some of these occurred, they would have been
reported?

Dr. LaPaz: I think that definitely is true. To my kmowledge, as fer as the
contacts I’ve had with Olivie an@ so on, there was nothing out of the normal
noticed in the East, and in the South, shall we say as far up s¢ White Sands.
Whether the Harvard Observatory setup observed esnything peculiar or not, I
don't know. We tried right away to get that information. We were told by

the gentleman in charge down there, I'm sure this will be interest to you, thet

Le ee :
Conference on AERIAL PHENOMENA Page 22

it was impossible to make an estimate of the approximate weve anf engstroms
without detailed spectroscopic eavipment, which he did not possess. So
whether the Captein actually cut ont the spectrum charts and sent them to
him or not, I don't know, but it was considered.

Dr. Bradbury: Well, we're not coming up with any bright ideas for you very

fast,

bir. Newburger: No, but as long as we have the probiem presented to you, maybe
by thinking on this, you will come up with an idea! ..... Of course, you mow
our entire connection with started with Madelyn Gwynn Merchant back in 1946!

Dy. LaPaz: Exe¢ept for the flying disce, nothing that you could eay would cause
me¢ greater embarrassment? I have actually had commmications from Madelyn
myself.

Dr. Teller: Your statement of the absence of sound when this thing has gone
apparently overhead at the distance of 10 miles, within earshot of people.

Dr. LaPaz: That seems incomprehensible, doesn't it, Dr. Teller? I'm glad to
hear you say that because that has been my feeling from the beginning. And
we tried desperately to get confirming evidence whenever sounds were men~
tioned. Wo reports have been obtained.

Dr. Teller: i must say that the edmission in which one could get .... typical

phenomenon is something in the light of ....

Dr. LaPaz: Kaplan told me he was going to get out one of his old blow pressure
tubes and begin experimenting as soon as he returned from the UCLA, to see if
he could duplicate in any way the descriptions we have given hin.

Dr. Holloway: What sound does a P-2 make when it goes overhead?

Dr. LaPag: I can tell you what they make when they come down.

Comir. Mandelkorn: I can tell you whet they make when they go overhead at
the height of about 1,000 yards. But anything man-made that passes overhead
at the height of 8-10 miles, at this speed, could be inaudible.

Dr. Teller: You think it could be?

Comir. Memdelkorn: I think it could be. The only .

Dr. Teller: Even if it went at the speed of 10 miles per second?

Comdz. Mandelkorn: Well,

Dr. Teller: You see, at that time, the ..... begins to come up.

Dr. LePas: You bet it does.

ERIAL PHENOMENA

. Teller: You have to get a shock wave out of it. With a very small object
the shock wave would be gmaller than .... I have not made calculations on it,
ut it's just common sense

LeaPag: I would like to ask a question. Ien't it true in the case of the

So called Light movement that you have very intense, luminous effects off them
without noise?

(talk between Drs. Bradbury and IePas too fast and too jumbled to

be transcribed.)
Comdy. Mandelkorn: From what Dr. Velier said apparently a solid object con-
verging with the atmosphere horizontally at about 8 to 10 miles altitude, it's
incr@aible that it wouldn't be accompanied by some sort of sonie phenomenon.

De. Teller: I would like to repeat that to try to get an estimate of the size
> the object, that it would have to have in order to get sound effects, is
not an easy thing, but offhand I would say - this is what I would expect - that

you get a very small object, as small as an inch or smaller.

Dr. Teller: If I remember correctly, the intensity, the amount of energy that
goes inte a shock wave is proportional to the square of the velocity. The
velocity thet you have here proportional to the square of the velocity and

of course, is proportional I should think probably to the square of the linear
dimensions of the object that you have. Wow you have 10 miles per second .
velocity you have 20 miles per second, so this could be, on that count, ten.
times fainter - the sound would be ten times fainter. On the other hand, a
meteorite that you will hear, I think, thet much across J....

{too much eross talk)

Or. Teller: That is something we could do right away. Now I do not know,
tried to get from you information on brightness, but I would like to ask again
some Getails co.

Dr. LaPaz: The brightest meteorite fall in history, of which we have
historical record, was the ... fall in 1908, J 20 .... estimates the pover,
the light power, of that|was of the order of 101° ~ 1019 ergs per second. In
the case of the Texas fall it was probably not 100 ,000¢h as bright.

dl
; 7 ~ tt ag y w heli awe | ‘ Mmgns 0 he ma Teri o sie ok mn he
Wit 1 theoreticaily believe in, 1t Ougmc to De & Materia: boo; OMe eee
walt i - eve een OvVservea in wae as¢ 2 leucor.s & #1 75
» 3 5 shares tary thay angnatr rn ho ahbhia *+5 tale the sheante of
. . ,  eneyeele "A wee? Pence Imnmn “he et oh? of +h ahiect whieh ha:
2 i ¥ A] : Cli UMC LISULCS , wWwOULt UN MIGALMEY UV a vik
4 Ys inijts seems tO id Up LAs Meecing
. . } te 3 + he + hoe a — ror? 4a ont Ti ate itiy
Or : LOY y i Li Ggon't teeZ LUA «6Lne Heveo Sculls Lis Out. iit PUZZLILUeA
5 . any hoy ontal neath: ais ‘. 2H2enee ££’ wnoiagae ia nnigzliing