S consolidated ©
nuclear security, llc
PANTEX PLANT | Y-12 NATIONAL SECURITY COMPLEX

SEP 0 9 2015

Deputy Assistant Manager

for Safeguards & Security

NNSA Production Office

Post Office Box 2050

Oak Ridge. Tennessee 37831-8009

Pantex Unidentified Object Report

Uneleesified-C ens Las

P.O. Box 30020 Office 806.477.3918
Amarillo, TA 79120-0020 Fax 806.477.5690

Enclosed for your review is the complete report for the Pantex Unidentified Object that occurred on

ee

Sincerely yours,

tex
Pantex SS&ES Operations

GDW:]jv
Enclosure: As stated

Clerc: a

SS&ES.15-1509514-4230-SS&ES

September 2, 2015. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact me at 7 or

INCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR
INFORAJATION NOT FOR PUBLIC R

Unauthorized dissemmsagn subject to civil gaéthimmal sanctions

under section 148 of the Aronts eT Lf

Reviewing Officigh | CRSRaneen

Date: Seplemmfer 8. 20) 5° a

petfence Used: CG-55-4. Sept 2000, Che 7, HO OC

Comeluiated Nuchea: Security, LLC

Pantex Unidentified Object
Incident Report

September 2, 2015

Pantex Plant
Amarillo, TX 79120-0020

EERE EA eR, LEER ER OE TN dd tele RET b ES EAA AEA RRA GE Gd REGRET Ee  OORRl  OC AEE bee ee ELS OED TREAT

UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR INFORNMATIO!
NOT FOR PUBLIC RELEASE
Unauthorized disseminatic biect to civil go iminal sanctions under

Section 148 of the Atomic Energy Sa $54, as amended {42 U.S.C. 2168}

Managed and Operated by “
Come Ceecreer Fenty He Pantex Unidentified Object Incident Report

On September 1, 2015 at approximately 0710 hours, the Pantex Ground Surveillance Radar
{GSR) detection system identified an unknown object flying in a non-threatening manner west
of Pantex facilities in a northerly trajectory. The Protective Force (PF) responded in accordance
with the NPO approved Security Incident Response to Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) plan. The
object was initially identified just north of Highway 60 and was traveling in a northerly
trajectory approximately 10-15mph. PF personnel were alerted to the object and subsequently
dispatched to follow it in an effort to obtain as much information about the object as possible.
PF personnel on the ground confirmed the presence of the object and maintained observation
via PF vehicle. PF personnel followed the object for several miles north of the plant until it was
no longer visible. All plant pedestrian and vehicle gates leading into and out of security areas
were immediately secured upon identification of an unknown object by the GSR. Furthermore,
PF patrols moved to a position to ensure the protection of assets.

A subsequent comprehensive review af the incident was immediately initiated. The following
text describes actions taken by Central Alarm Station (CAS) and Secondary Alarm Station (SAS)
GSR operators, PF officers and Security Police Officers (SPOs) during the event.

At approximately 0708 hours, the an object
approximately 1.75 miles SW of Z-12 South traveling at 10-15 mph (see map below titled,
Ground Surveillance Radar Tracks). Several other radar hits were received as the object
traversed to the NNW. to attempt to locate the object and
report its position and direction of travel. A PF Lieutenant (Lt.} and SPO in the area spotted the
object and followed it as it traveled north. The Lt. and SPO attempted to intercept the object as
it traveled over Pantex Drive in an attempt to view the object directly from below. Although
they were unable to catch up to the object, they stopped their vehicle and got out. Once
outside, they noted that the object did not make any sound. Furthermore, the Lt. and SPO
stated that they were unable to identify any type of propulsion system on the object while
using binoculars to assess the object. After viewing it for 1-2 minutes, the object then
continued north offsite. The Lt. and SPO then followed the object for several miles north of
Pantex before they Jost the object due to lack of roadway access. The location where the object
was last seen was near County Road G and F.M. 1342. The Carson County Sherriff's office was
notified when the object began to traverse off-site and requested to respond to the area and
assist in locating the object. A Sherriff's Deputy met the Lt. and SPO at the point where the
object was last seen. The Deputy stated that he did not see the object but would perform a
search in the area for anything unusual. It was noted that the object seemed to increase in
speed and changed direction as it was being followed. The last known direct of the object was
that it was heading in an ENE direction. The Lt. and SPO were debriefed upon their return to the

Ho Page 2 of 6

PanreEx ae

Managed and Operated by
Coneatiowes Huctvae Seciity $16 Pantex Unidentified Object Incident Report

plant. Their perspective of the object was that it was a “diamond” type shape with it being
more round at the top.

Security Police Officers in a Bearcat with a Common Remotely Operated Weapon System
(CROWS) unit were also able to locate and track the object via CROWS camera as it traversed
the plant. The SPOs stated that it was 100-200 ft. above the ground and they were able to track
the object for 3-5 minutes. The SPOs location was approximately 75-100 meters from the
object.

Other PF personnel that observed the object, including a SPO that was viewing the object
through binoculars described it as being approximately 4 ft. tall and 2 ft. wide at the bottom.
The object was also described as being thinner at the top. However, there were some
discrepancies in the color of the object. Some personnel stated that it was black in color while
others noted that it appeared to be silver, red and blue.

Video was obtained from the GSR tower that was closest to the object and subsequently sent to
Sandia National Labs for further study (see image below titled, Image from Ground Surveillance
Radar Tower). The video does not provide much detail of the object due to the distance of the
object to the GSR tower. It should be noted that at no time did the object appear to be
threatening in nature nor did it come to close proximity to any sensitive assets. The object
remained over open unpopulated areas of the plant prior to it proceeding offsite. All evidence
of the incident (i.e. statements, video, etc.) were turned over to FBI agent

Ss Page 3 of 6

Managed and Operated by
Consolidated Nuctnar Secvrity, LLC Pantex Unidentified Object Incident Report

Image from Ground Surveillance Radar Tower

tot Page 5 of 6