DECLASSIFIED

Authority:

NND 917033

18 February 191,£

oe ale)
AOTG

‘oreatur, “ansas

ie of observ )

r M, R, Spehbiel account (taken from newspap er)

Occupation of obsorvor Edi tor

Norton, Kansas

n “oreatur, Kansas

rvor HN/S

aititudo 30 = 35 miles above earth

Speed N/S

Dirvetion of Plicht N/S

sound One big explosion ~ "afterwards a lot of little explosions"
sizo N/S

olor Bluish-white smoke smudye

she pre Mushroom
tod N/S
construction 4eteor

> trails Meme Bluish-white smoke smudge
‘ther conditions “/S

/ On clouds Nfs

ones or phe

stographs Photo of vapor trail left in sky by explosion
Nannor of disappearnnco Disintegration

Xomarks: Oscar Monnig, of the Texas Observers, .mateur Astronomy, 1010
Morningside Drive, Ft, Worth,

offers "tangible proof that the fireball

of February 1& over narthern 4Sansas was just that, inasmuch as meteorites
have been recovered from it." There were found,

berinning April 2h, first
several smaller fragnrents up to one of | 1/2

t
pounds. Then a disturbed
spot in a clover field led to the digging up of a riece of sone 109 pounds
embedded about two feet in the soil. The stone is what is termed as an
"achondrite", a technical name for an wusual type of stony metecrite.

It is reported to be of a type which will deteriorate rapidly.

& photograph of the trail of the meteor, made by amateur photographer
Duane J, Wray of Nortor, shows the vapor trail left in th: sky by the
explosion of a meteor which was seen is Oklahoma, New “exico, Colorado,
Kansas, ard “ebraska. It was mde at Wray's home, nine miles north of
Norton, just four minutes after the meteor xploded, A smulge of blu-
widte smoke remained in the sky for an how February 16th, This photo-
graph is in file wider incident #101,

Further remarks are contained in supplement.

Febrm

whether

Acc it
for
across

when
Kansas,

vas
February

afternoon ¢
sition a
r

‘ff 4
ai

Ler
§i0n

c

aa

the progress

west Le

iis; atch
call
meteor as tronomer
lid so

74 nA o 7

cor
that

whnile many } n

, tn
ling 4

( Denver )

CEs
Ubservatory

not assess

owt

wie ¥

lispatcn
it

4

ia ,

es

itself

b cane, ap arene
to other meteoric explanation.

7 +he is a
is is e e 21 ie

earth and moon'

A sketch-diagram o! ¥

culiarity in connection wit! ap pe

Ve

significar
If a line is s'ricken
5 pe) t ie si te

‘four (local

angle four o clock

sf

wo
the west-to-east course

yued
intersect

ai

is
near to

it of e moon it will

piace Ww

ws

ere
ext 1

2

after 3

o OK

d
ruary

3
3

New moon at

at 17D -

12.5 degrees

yocurr

7

per

earing in

seer!

roximate

i sappear ed.

under a
is object a bolide -

rus

lary

some peculiarities

eoine4 jen ta] a not

the Pueblo F TAIN
moving eastward
ruary lfth, anc
Norcatur,
The ex-

s

to

15

appearance in-

Denver dateline
S
it

shamber Lis
it is said in
er explanation

ry
me

nomalous , lend

ind may

s orbit reveals
whict

; he
ance, €

may

u

he meridional
at hour

be considered

seen

t.he

meteor

be
oward
lunar
t fror -

First Quarter
proximately

re
ary 5

hurd red

oe

It is held by rocketry experts (example, WILLY LEY - see
his ROCKETS, p. 192, diagram and note in connection there-
with) that it would take about 100 hours for a rocket-crsft
to negotiate the distance from Earth to Moon.

Prior to its explosion over Norcatur, this object of Feb.
18th was variously reported 4s a "falling plane", a "jet
plane", and a “ball of fire". It is said by some to have
left a trail of smoke behind it.

It is the suggestion of this writer that the Army collect
and assimilate reports on this object, with a view to
determining where it was seen as an object trailing smoke
and where as a ball of fire.

If this thing is a rocket of some kind headed for the moon,
it might first have been seen as a streak of smoke, then
later as a ball of fire, and lastly as a tremendous ex-
plosion when it at last reached sufficient speed and eleva-
tion for take-off.

The writer has in mind the various and wmexplained reports
on "flying saucers", and bases this speculation upon a
long; consideration of various oddments of reports whose
Significance might be of space-craft from other worlds of
space.

The so-called "meteoric procession" which crossed Toronto
in February 1913, consisted of a number of groups of
illimmated bodies traveling in groups of three and moving
in "rigid formation", all pursuing a course across the
same streak of the earth's surface. “*f a line is projected
backward along this line of flight it will be seen that
this line "comes out" at the position of the moon at the
time, The 1914 phenomenon occurred in the mid=period of
a series of reports on dirigible aircraft of appearance
like zeppelins which were seen over Ingland and whose
appearance terminated - or reports on the appearances
stopped = just prior to the inferior conjunction of Venus
of April 2h, 1913.

The writer begs to call attention to the fact that the
times prior to and just after inferior conjunction of Venus
are prolific in reports of strange things seen in the sky.

Also that lights have been reported on the moon from time
to time, back for at least a century.

If in the future of military experiment the moon is selected
as a base for the launching of rockets (which has been
Suggested by some writers), it may be well to look first

liven ar e : ~~ + Ot . * . +4 maw m +
+h, +} y +) } RI+oan = Wer nth » ¢he y
~f/ } DMAW ‘ADDOEMT treapviyse

/S/ NN WAN GARRETT MARKHAM
[It may do not harm t
watah + ne .
watch the moon for
possible arrival of
at 50 to Li urs aiter

’ "its “eparture",

March 14, 1948
- SIGGE-M-1

Norman G, Markham
MAIN HOTEL, Pueblo, Colo

To: Chief -ignal Officer
U, S. Army, ‘ashington, D.C,

Subject: Norcatur, Kans., sky explosion
of 18 February, 1946

Purpose: To show a speculation regard-
ing the above phenomenon and
another one of earlier date
and to call attention to
occurrences between the two
which have an appearance of
relationship whether coinci-
dental or not.

The geographical position of the Norcatur explosion suggests possible
linkage with other occurrences happening inside latitudinal limits arbitrarily
demarkable between 3° 36' North (which is the latitule of Boise, Idaho)
and 36° 10' North (the latitule of Nashville, Tenn.), a belt about 85
miles wide,

This suggestion is gained from positions given for occurrences
happening between June 2, 1947 and February 16, 19148, as shall be
hereinafter briefly described.

THE BOISE (Idaho) OBJECT—This was seen either beginning or ending at 330 pm
2), June 197 and was visible for 20 minutes. It was in the western sky,

was of comet-like appearance, and settled gradually toward the horizon as
planetary bodies set. It was seen ty Lt. Gov. Whitehead and Chief Justice
Lampert. Its nature was unknom.

The peculiarity which connects this jolie for speculative purposes, with

the explosion of some unknown object over ‘orecatur, Kans., on 18 February
1948 is the seeming of a relationship between the positions of the moon for
the two phenomena:

In the former case the moon was at the date of phenomenon, about 7%, 63
before the positionof First Quarter; on the second case it was about 5%,73
beyond the position of first quarter.

Since the Boise object was visible for 20 minutes before it sank this
argues it was about ten degrees above the horizon when first seen. Now
if a line be drawn westward and at ten degrees zenithward from the

horizon of Boise at 3:30 p.m, and another line be dram from the position
of the moon at one hundred hours before the sighting of the Boise object,
ard projected to the center of the earth, it will be seen that this ten-
degrees-altitude and the moon-earth line intersect as a place far above
a geographical position considerably to the west of Cape Blance, in the
neighborhoodof about 700 miles off the coast.

The Boise object in its appearance suggests a rocket-typeof craft possibly
using reaction blasts to brake itself dow for a landing on the earth,

The bright point and plumy tail of the description suggest this, as also
its apparent fixity in space,

HOLLE'S "SHIP IN FLAMES" =—— Nine days after the sighting of the Boise
object a forest lookout named Earl Holle saw at or soon after 1:00 p.m.,
3rd July, 1947, something he took to be a "tanker in flames", This was
seen horizon-ward i'rom a point in Sonoma County, California, near to Fort
Ross. A search was instituted by the Navy or Coast Guard, and nothing was
found. The soviet tanker ELSRUZ, which had been in the vicinity, was
queried ami found to be all right. This was not explained,

If this apperance had been on the horizon, there is no telling how far
it may have been from the observer,

CAPE MENDOCINO BLIMP INCIDENT =-=— Not far from the location of Holle's
“burning ship" an accident occurred to a navy blimp, 1); July 1947, off Cape
Mendocino,

This blimp suddenly settled into the water, slipped out its crew and rose
again.

The anomaly here is that one would not expect to find drastic dowm-drafts
of such violence as to thus upset a lighter than air craft. Possibly a
downdraft accounted tor the accident - but if the Signal Officer will look
up the incident of the British steamer Talma which, at the time of the
sighting of a luminous wheel-like phenomenon in the Gulf of “artaban,
reported a slowing of the engines from some unknown cause, it may be seen
that possibly forces are venerated in some manner by certain wmknom
objects at times in the ocean, which may have physical attraction for
material objects. This blimp accident occurring in waters where occurred
other phenomena shortly to be mentioned, seems to have a doubtful side

to it.

THE QAKIAND OBJECT — Sarly on the morning of 13th Cctober, 1947, a
photographer named Hen Dobus togehter with a taxidriver named A, Jd,
Goldman saw a thing "that looked like Saturn with a ring around it."

4+ shot at terrific speed WESTWARD across the sky of the Bay area, and was
seen shortly after midnight.

This may have been heading in the general direction of what may have been
the goal of two later objects which roughly resemble it in description.

THE TICONDEROGA OBJECTS =~ According to the tanker Ticonderoga's
second officer, two "flying discs" were seen heading SOUTHWEST when the
ship was in 3 degrees fifteen minutes north and 12); degrees 5 minutes
west, at 0620 GCT, 12th November 1917.

These may have been heading for the object seen in the Pacific off the
Golden Gate, not long afterward - or possibly at the same time, if earlier
reports on this are consulted, ,

‘THE PHANTOM REEF — On November 2), 197, the Navy denied that it had
found a phantom reef or other obstruction to navigation at a point about
400 miles west of San Francisco, The Navay Survey ship MAURY, sent out
there in response to reports of ships that some hugh object had been
seen in the water in that neighborhood, reported that when in the
approximate 1 titude and longitude of the supposed obstruction they
picked up an echo from something in the water 1600 yards from the

ship; but that when they had steamed to within 400 yards of this, the
echo vanished,

There seems a possible connectability between the various elements so
far considered.

Later on January 7, 1915, there were occurrences in the neighborhood of
Wilmington, 0., Ft. Knox, Ky., Franklin, Ky., and Nashville, Tenn., all of
which must be now familiar to the archivists of the Signal Office,

Something like a "flying disc" was pursued by one Lt, Mmtell ani two
other pilots, “antel being killed while in the process of attempting to
gain altitude to get close to whatever it was he was chasing.

Also, in this connection, it may not be amiss to mention the deaths of

two military officers who were said to have been bringing back material
evidence from "flying discs" one of which was said to have met with some kind
of accident over “aury Island, Puget Sound, around Jue, 1947.

It will be seen on inspection that the geographical locales of these
incidents fit inside the belt of latituwies hereinbefore mentioned.

THE NORCATUR EXPLOSION was described in a previous letter of this
writer, ani it was show in that letter that a line tangential to the
meridian of Norcatur, Kans., at hour-angle 2:20 p.m., would if con-
tinued outward into space to the orbit of the moon, intersect the
moon's orbit at a point where the moon would have been at about 100
hours after the time of the explosion.

According to rocketry theory, it would take a reaction=propelled
craft of the rocket type about 100 hours to reach the moon,

science, which

c} é ? bservatory, Venver,
plain the thing which exploded over Norcatur,.
the thing was a meteor flatly disregards Dr, Rocht's
been based on the Denver Posts' statement that. a

Liiuves

the,
were
exg

4

? she exnlosior

e

men w

are capable of recognizing the anomalies
ccur, evenif onl id

ily to aid in speculatior

lation regarding

offers his servic

hem,

Excerpt of letter dated April 11, 1948 from Dr. Lincoln “aPaz, Director,
Institute of Meteoritics, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New
Mexico, to the Deputy Executive Director, Committee on Geophysical
Sciences, Research and Development Board:

Thank you for the surprising documents sent me under date of March
30. AS you remark, certain aspects of Markham's letters are fantastic
(for example: (1) the fireball procession of 1913, February 9, was
genuinely meteoric, although a rare type of chain fall; {2) no astronomer
could take seriously Markham's "invasion by beings from Venus or the Moon"=
theory: (3) he ‘appeals to, and biases in his favor, such untrustworthy
evidence as newspaper stories, e.g., the absurd statement attributed to
Dr. Rocht of the Chamberlin Observatory). Nevertheless, Markham is justi-
fied in calling attention to certain incidents as wexplained, for a
the "flyin lenses" (in my opinion 99% hoax and imagination and 1% real).

As regards the Norcatur, Kansas incident, I remain convinced that,
like the Four Corners incident, it was a genuine meteorite fall, although
one of exceptional size (again like the Four Corners fall), However,
there are many curious aspects of both these falls, some of an objective
nature, like the singular fact that in spite of intensive searches (ad-
mittedly under bad terrain and weather conditions), not a trace of meteoritic
material has so far been found; some of a non-objective nature, like the
amazing testimony given b y Mr, Leland Sammons, Mr. Alfred Glem, and other
Witnesses of the Norcatur incident, both to members of the State Hj chway
Commission of Kansas and to institute of Meteoritics field survey parties.
(See exhibits A, B, ami C enclosed. )

Some comment on such testimony as appears in «,B, and C would seem
desirable:

1. Glenn first reported the battery case as red hot. ‘ihen I pointed
out that the pacer on it was not charred, his account was changed to
"too hot to handle". The Institute of Meteoritics party found only two
men, not four, who saw the battery case fall. The battery case has been
examined by Dr. Victor Regener, Department of Physics, University of
New Mexico, who states that it appears to be identical with the smll
batteries used in portable radios.

2. K. Hays' identification of the Norcatur object as a rocket has
the following support: On the moming of February 19, I talked to the
towerman and two assistants at the Air Base at McCook Field, Nebraska.
All three denied the Norcatur object was a fireball and described it as
a Glack object with an extremely bright jet of flame pouring out of the
rear. Furthermore, a lj-year old, and presumably unbiased, schoolgirl
in Oberlin, Kansas wrote me a similar description of the "Fireball."

overhead

but slightly east. Suddenly, about 1 and 1/2 minut
flash, there was a terrific explosion am jar, s
the windows all around to rattle. Following the
low reverberating rumblings across t

must have been very high.

ne heavens

Edgar Young, a boy living at Regar, just east of Norcatur, wa:
elevator, when he observed the explosion, looked up am saw the

of smoke, Ue stated that it was almost overhead but slightly west
He said that it was a big explosion. The elevator mar out ir
elevator, when he heard the explosion. He t ought that his oil-t
exploded in the office and ran in to see about it. Finds '
outside to see what had exploded, saw the big clouw of

slightly west.

Eastern Kansas newspaper carried a story about 6 days ago of one
like this one, coming from the south to vicinity of Iola, “ansas, where it
turned west and disappeared into the sky.

Check with Chief Scott of Norton about a burned flashlight battery
which fell in the street of Norton just after the explosion. It was too
hot to be picked up for several minutes. Chief Scott has it.

Note: A copy of Exhibit "C" referred to in letter from Dr, LaPaz, was
not received.

1S February 19448
1500 MST

Xuxerxturyxitemeaer Air Nea Green River, Utah

rvor Lenord P, Marchese’ (B-29 Pilot, Lt, 26 Bomber Gp)
Carl W. Stucki, Lt., Co-Pilot, (see reverse side
1 of obsorvor Pilot for other witnesses)

rvor 77th Bomb Sq, 28th Bomb Gp (VH), Weaver AFB, 5.D.

- 100° W -—- near Green River, Utah

rvcr 100 miles

20,000 feet
Very high
Southeast of Limon, Colorado
Explosion rate
ira Could not be determined due to B-2° engine noise
Huge
hinlti-colored ball of fire

we multi-colored ball of fire and dense cloud of smoke

Vapor trail with ball of fire at head of trail

nwf/v

A buge multi-colored ball of fire trailing a dense cloud of emke

was sighted at approx 1500 hours MST 18 Feb 4g, 39° N-100° W at ;
approx 20,000 ' by two B-O9 aircraft of the 28th Bombardment Group (V8).
It was seen some 100 miles southeast of the B-29s, Size was estimaded
as huge altho impossible to determine accurately due to the distance.

It was traveling at very high speed and heading southeast of Limon,
Colorado, at approx 20,000 ft.

Witnesses: Capt Howard H. Berodt, AO-49504, 718th Bomb Sq
28th Bomb Gp (VH). Pilot of lst Be29

Capt Maurice T. Ritenour, AO-/S043, 718th Bomb Sq
28 Bomb Gp (VH). Co-Pilot of lst B-29.

lst Lt Leonard P. Marchese, AO=748714, 77th Bomb
Sq., 28tp Bomb Gp (BH). Pilot of 2nd Be2g

lst Lt. Carl W. Stucki, AO-7%5916, 77th Bomb Sq,
28th Bomb Gp (VH). Co-Pilot of 2nd B29.

NOTE: See Incident 101 = Norcatur Kaneas,

xuxeakuryxkansaax Air near Green River Utah

rvors Capt. Howard H, Berodt = Capt Maurice 7.
(See Inc 102 - corréeration)

orvor rilots

Ritenour

ARR. SLD
AMD, Belle

ror 716th Bomb Sq, 28th Bomb Gp (VH) Weaver

N - 100° W - Near Green River, Utah

rvor 100 miles

Lcht N/S
20,000 feet

icht Southeast (of Limon, Colorado)

Explosion rate

Could not be determined due to B-29 engine noise
Sizo Huge (Seen 100 miles west of the B-29 's)

Color Multi-colored ball of fire

Shepo Hygh milti-colored ball of fire and dense cloud of smoke followed

Cdor dotectod N/S
apparent construction n/S

Exhaust trails Vapor trail with a ball of fire at the head of trail

ather conditions Clear

Effect on clouds N/S
Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance n/s

Romarks: Meme —- Same as incident 102 which see

45 minutes
About 5° above horizon

very slow

N/S Faded away
None
Unknown

yellow-orange

N/S = seemed to be flare
None
CAVU - 10 miles

Figs (2) showing yellow orange flame-like oval

faded into horizon

CHECKeLIST = UNI
gM ug Incidont # 105

Time 1100

Mr, A, C, Morrieon

Mamo of observor

Cecupation of obsorvor Supt. Meter Dept, Duke Power Co., Charlotte, H. ©,

Charlotte, N. C. (Duke Power Co.)

Address of observor

Belmont, HN. C. (Sighted from ground)

about 10 seconis

Timo in sight

W/S - could not be estimted

Altitude

Speod Around 600 MPH
flicht Easterly

Diroction of

None - moved in straight line at constant speed without
change in altitude or direction

Tactics
und None
From a distance - that of a emall coin

bright or silver - looked metallic
round or sphere (unable to determine which)
d n/S
truction Metallic
None
Clear with scattered white clouds
orraphs Mone

behind emall white cloud

5 March 19h2
1610 = 1655

Hakersfield, California
servor George L. Buchner
i of observor N/S

sorvor Rakersfield, California

rvition

From ground, southwest toward Buena Vista Lake,Calif.

Two

object from obsorvor

Timo in sircht n/S
altitude n/s
Speed wW/s

Diroction of flicht Earthward

Tactics N/S

Seemingly on fire, black and red smoke trailing behind
Similar to falling aircraft

bocteod N/S
aront construction N/S

Exhaust trails Brownish-white smoke and debris trailing

Pn hh
won

hor conditions N/S

Effoet on clouds n/S “Sa it tae ELLs es . Gaon Ge a ee

or photographs None

Nanner of disappoarance Behind a water tower, which was an obstruction
to the view

Comments of G. L, Buckner and other witnesses to this
Sighting contained in attached Supplement.

Romarks:

a

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

hAFDA=3 /1208-1

SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Disc. Mar 11, 1918

Chief of Staff
United States Air Forces
Washington, 4, C.
ATIN: DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE
Air Intelligence Requirements Branch

1. Incident reported on 9 March 1945, this headquarters, per telephone
call from Sgt A. M, 4arsen, Sheriff's office, Bakersfield, California,

a. “bservation by Mr. (George L) Les Buchner, Bakersfield, California,
of two objects falling to earth from unknown source on 5 March 1948 between
1610 and 1655 hours. Description of objects similar to falling aircraft
with smoke and debris trailing. Observation made at Bakersfield with objects
sighted southwest toward Buena’ Vista Lake, California.

b. Ubvservation by Mr. Denio, employee of the Pacific General “lect_ic
Company, Bakersfield, California, of two objects which fell to earth from
unknown source north of Bakersfield, California, 8 March 198. One object
seemed to be on fire with red and black smoke trailing behind.

2 Intormant Larsen stated that searching parties, «sircraft and rescue

ce

units have made numerous attempts to locate these reported objects without

Suc cess,

4 -nvestigation of incident has been initiated by tois headquarters.

De

Report will follow,

/s/ Donald L. Springer
DONALD L, SPRINGE
Lt. Colonel, USAF
AC of S, A-2

formation to:
ADC, Mitchel Fld, N.Y.
FBL, San Francisco
Ge?, Sixth Army
DIO, Yan Francisco (12th Nay.Dist)

acl é \s ’ [Fe a]

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

LAFDA-3 /1208-I
SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Discs
SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

Information from the Sheriff's Office, Bakersfie ld, California, revealed
that numerous calls from residents in Bakersfield concerning peculiar objects
in the sky over Bakersfield, predicated an investigation by their office and
contact with A-2 Headquarters Fourth Air Force,

On 13th March 1918, two informants, Mr. George L. Buchner, and r,
H. B, Nix, stated that they observed a flying object which appeared to be
consumed in fire, amd left a bromish-white plume of smoke, which suddenly
stopped ami disappeared. Seconds later, what appeared to be a mrachute,
was seen to be drifting to the east,

The object, as described, appeared to be a burning fabric airplane,
consumed in smoke, Observations were made in Bakersfield of object to
the south and southwest, approximately ten to twelve miles distance, around
1600 hours on 5 March 19)8.

On 13th March 1948, informant, Mr, H, B, Nix, stated that he observed

an object at 0830, 6 March 1918, due north of Bakersfield, approximately five
/ miles distance. The object was a large, orange-red ball of fire, somewhat
larger than a smll airplme, appeared to remain static for approximately
thirty seconds, then split and continued to burn; each visible as a burning
half, A parachute, with a black object hanging was then observed to fall,
drift to the east and disappeared into the hills east of Bakersfield.

On 13th “arch 1948, two informants, Mrs. Callie R. “ason, secretary,
Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield, California, and Dr. J. E. Johnson, dentist
Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield, California, stated that they were in
Room 518, “aberfelde Building, on the morning of 9 March 1948, irs, Mason
was a patient of Dr. Johnson. Both informants stated that they observed a
flaming object which appeared at first to be a very small airplane. Orange
red flames seemed to envelope the object with considerable black smoke
trailing in a zigzag manner for approximately 1,000 to 5,000 feet. The
object was observed at 1,000 feet, approximately due north of Bakersfield,
seven to ten miles distant at approxima tely 0830 hours,

Informants further stated that the object disappeared behind a water
tower, which was an obstruction to their view, and was near the »round.
Both informants watched for an explosion, thinking that it would explode
upon reaching the ground, but nothing wusual was noted,

L LOW,

; , ’ 4 iq
by a "+

} ‘ tf 4) ra A ;

VU Oem S & *« oe W ]

CHECK*LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FI YING OBJECTS

cident # 10
& March 19),8 Incidont # 107

Time N/S

Location Bakersfield, California

vamo of observor Mr. Denio

Occupation of obsorvor Paeific General Electric Company employee

address of obsorvor N/S

Placs of observation Sighted from ground

Number of objects Two
Distance of objoct from obsorvor N/S

Timo in sight N/S

Altitude N/S

Speod N/S

Direction of flight Earthward

Tactics N/S

Sourd N/S

Sizo wW/S

Color Une object seemingly afire, red and black smoke trailing
Shapo N/S

Odor dotectod N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails N/S

Woathor conditions N/S

Effoect on clouds \/S

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappoaranco WMS Fell to earth

Romarks: See supplement to Incident #106.

& March 19,8

0830

Bakersfield, California

te ijuame of observer H, B. Nix

Se Cccupstion of observer wN/S

¥¢ stdress of observor N/§

e Fluac f servution Sighted from cround

/e Distanco of object from observer 5 miles

e fimo .. >i «he

Approx. 30 seconds before splitting and burning

Static for approx 30 seconds, and then drifting

‘ Diroctior f flicht eastward
ar rd N/S

Larger than a small sirplane

‘ ler Oranzge-red ball of fire

3all

“sone

Drifted to the east into the hills east of
akersfield
to +ncident #106

9) Sm Oy EBAY SP fe

CHECK*LIS£ - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Incidont #109

Locetion Bakersfield, California

Name of observers J,E, Johnson amd Mrs. Callie R, Mason
Occupation of obsorvor J,E, Johnson, Dentist, Mrs. Mason, Secretary
Address of obsorvor N/S

Placo of observation 5th Floor of business building
Numbor of objocts One

Distance of object from obsorver 7 = 10 miles

Timo in sight N/S

Altitude 1000 feet

Speed N/S

Direction of flight Due north of Bakersfield

Tactics Zig-zaging

Soumd N/S

Sizec Appearance of a very small airplane

Color Orange-red flame

She po Appearance of a very small airplane

Odor dotectod N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails Considerable black smoke trailing for 4000 to 5000 feet
Woathor conditions N/S

Effoct on clouds u/s

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance N/S

Romarks: See supplement to Incident #106

se .
. ECK = 2 :
° 22 March 194 —————
‘i . thor { corverActive in American “ei ictivities ;
| ae ;caurd LMotor drone of foreign type aircraft
hy. siz N/S
1G. Odor d etod N/S
. sat Pon OY truction N/S
a lonthor conditions N/S
Alive Skoteh :s or photographs None
>,  Romarks: See Supplement :

U % as ery ¥V &@ysv 7 J bSeD Ls
HEADQUARTERS STRATEGIC AIR COMMAND A2B
Andrews Field
Washington 20, D. C,

oo # 110

SAC 350 (29 Mar lS) 29 March 19/8

SUBJECT: Report of Unidentified Aerial Sounds,

Chief of Staff

United States Air Force

Washington 25, 0. C,

Attention: VYirector of 4ntelligence

le The following is quoted from a copy of a letter, “altimore
Office, FBI, addressed to the Director of Intelli;ence, Second 4rmy:

"On March 24, 1948, an individual, who desired that her
identity be kept confidential, telephonically communicated with this
office and indicated that she is the wife of a former member of the
United States military forces, ami that she is presently active in
American +egion activities, but was emphatic in stating that she was
in no way hysterical or unduly apprehensive regarding present world
conditions. She did, however, wish to bring tothe attention of the
proper authorities that during the past six or eight weeks, on a
number of occasions between the hours of 3:00 and 5:00 «.M., she has
heard peculiar sounding noises in the sky, which appear to come from
airpliwnes in the distance, but the sound is not the type of airplane
motor drone which isgenerally heard from American planes. She has
discussed the matter with her husband, and he believes that the sound
is more like that of a foreign type airplane. She recently discussed
this matter with an unidentified woman who lives in her neighborhood,
which is Hamilton, Baltimore, “aryland, ami this woman stated that she,
too, had heard the noise in question, and that her husband is also an
ex-G.I. and he has stated that the motors sounded like that of foreign
planes,"

2. No action is contemplated by this headquarters,

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

c/e furnished CG, ALAN MARCEAU
AMC, Attn: MCI, CWO, USAF
Asst adj Gen

CHECKLIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 1 April 19h8 Incidont # 11
Time 0955
Location 124° 3' East, 12°, 52' North

Namo of observer 1st Lt, Meyers (Robert W.)

Occupation of obgorvor Peij7 Pilot

Address of observer 67th Fighter Squadron, 1th Fighter Group

Placo of obsorvetion Philippine Islands — Sighted from air

Numbor of objects Une

Distanco of object from obscrvor 3 miles

Timo in sight Approximately 60 seconds

Altituds 1000 feet

Speed 200 mph (disappeared in 5 seconds, iniicating great acceleration)

Diroction of flight 270°

Tactics N/S

Sourd None

Sizo Estimated - wing-span 70 feet, length 20 feet

Color Silver

Shapo A half moon closely resembling a flying wing type acft; turtle
back and an indistinct dorsal fin

Odor detected N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails None observed

WWoathor conditions Seattered cumulus, base 3000 feet, tops 6000 feet

Effect on clouds N/S

ay

Skotehes or photographs None

Manner of disappearance Object leveled out on heading of 270°, accelerated
rapidly and disappeared from sight
Romarks:
See attached supplement
NE on a ee

HEADQUARTERS, THIRTEENTH AIR FORCE
CLARY AIR FOR RCE BASE
APO 719 B=2 /am

& April 19)4

AG 452.1

SUBJECY: Report of “ighting of Unidentified ,ircraft
and/or Flying Vbject.

‘TO : Comnanding General,
Far East Air Forces,
APO 925,
ATIN: AC/S, A-2

1. In compliance with "Intelligence Requirements - Un-identified
Aireraft" and letters, your heaiquarters, AG 452.1 A-2, 3 “ovember 1917
and AG 152.1 A-2, 20 March 198, the following incident is reported,

2. At 16% hours on 1 April 1948, the S-2 officer of the 18th
Fighter Group contacted the A-2 Division, this headquarters, and reported
that lst Lt. Robert /. “eyers had sighted an unidentified flyin;, object.
‘tis story is as follows.

ay On 1 April, at 0955, 1st Lt, Meyers was leading a flight of
four \l,) P-y7 aircraft of the 67th Fighter Squadron, 18th Fighter Group.
He was flying a heading of 180 degrees, altitude 1500 feet, position 1?
degrees 3 minutes east and 12 degrees 52 minutes north, when he sighted
an widentified cject approximately three (%) miles east of his position
and at an estimated altitude of 1000 feet, heading of 360 degrees. The
object appeared to be a flying wing type aircraft, its shape resembled
a half moon what appeared to be a dorsal fin was barely perceptible, the
span of the object estimated to be thirty feet, length twenty feet and
silver in color. Upon sightiny theobject, Lt. eyers immediately started
a left turn with the intention of intercepting and to more positively
identify this phenomena. While Meyers was making a 2l;0 degree turn, the
unidentified object made a 90 degree left turn, then leveled out on a
heading of 270 degrees, accelerated rapidly and disappeared from sight

in approximately five seconds. There was no sound heard, ‘and no exhaust
trails were observed. At the time of the sighting visibility was unlimited,
scattered cumulus, base 3000 feet, tops 6000 feet.

a. Because of the distance from which the sighting was made,
no distinguishing features i.e. power units, larding gear, armament or
cockpit were observed.

Be2, AG 452.1, Subject! "Report of ~ighting of Unidentified aircraft
and/or Flying Object."

cockpit were observed.

b. The interview wth Lt. “eyers indicated that he is a
reliable, non-excitable individual and appeared quite positive in his
statements. Jt must be taken into consideration however that he was
the only witness to this incident, as he was. mable to call the object
to the attention of his three wing-men because of their maneuvering in
the turn, plus the fact that his radio was out.

3, Above incident reported your headquarters, 2 April 1918, in

radio, cite K2l,3H,

FOR TEE COMVANDING GENERAL:

/s/ Robert ¥. DeLong
ROBERT F. DE LONG
lst %., USAF
Acting Asst Adjutant General

Ltr Ho 13th AF, APO 719, Subj? "Rpt of Yighting of Unidentified
Aireraft and/or Flying Ubject," dtd @ Apr i.

Ind 15 April 19448

Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wrijht fatterson
Force Rase, Vayton, Ohio, Attention* CHI

1. Reference is made to letter Headquarters United States Air
Force, subject: “Reporting of 1nformation on 'Flving Discs' dated
26 February 1948.

2. Evaluation of sighting described in basic commmication by
this headquarters is that in view of the circumstances surroundiny, the
incident, the object was probably a bird.

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

/s/ Cc. N. Stewart
C. N. STEWART
Capt, AGD

Asst Adj Gen

PRIORITY April 19s
FROM: CINCFE TYKYO JAPAN 0807312.

1: DEPT OF ARMY WASHINGTON DC FOR CSGID, COMCENAMC WRIGHT-PATTERSON AFB
DAYTON OHIO ATTN MCI RPT NCI

INFOL: COMGENFEAF
IN REPLY CITE: CX 59769

Report control is A-1917. Pilot, 13 Air Force, at 0955, 1 April 48, Flying
P47 Aircraft heading 180 degrees altitude 1500 feet indicated at l2l, degrees 3
minutes East, 12 degrees 52 minutes ‘orth, weather scattered CFMULUS Rpt CUMULES.
3/10 base three thousand, top 600 visibility unlimited sighted flying object prroxi-
mately 4 miles East 1A heading 360, altitude estimated one thousand feet below him,
Unidentified object estimated speed at time of sighting 200 miles per hour. Pilot

tumed left attempting to intercept unidentified flying object for more positive

identification. At this time flying object made a turn of 90 degrees left, leveled
out and accelerated disappearing in approximately 5 seconds. Described as having A
turtle back and am indistinct dorsal fin. The sahpe of the object was that of A half
moon closely resembling A flying wing type aircraft, estimated wing span 40 feet,
estimated len th 20 feet, color silver, no rpt no exhaust trail was observed. Five
seconds elapsed tive for disappearing would indicate exceedingly high speed and great

acceleration. Reporting “fficer is consiered sincere and non-excitable type and firmly

believes he sighted object, A report will be forwarded upon completion of an irvesti-

gation of this incident.

Received MCAAG{21 9 Apr 4S 1008 (1508:))
Typed by MCAAGM21 9 Apr Lé 1359 )18592)ams
DISTRIBUTION: EJK

1. MCI--action

T~17789

e ‘ on oe ff ren

= eeneain TOTS , Q
CHECK*LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

8 Apr lig
Time 1400 - 1430
Location Ashley, Ohio

Incidont # 112

Namo of observor Miss Winifred Paines - Mrs. Bertha Slack
Occupation of obsorvor Mes Paines? Asst Bank Cashier; Mrs. Slack:
housekeeper
Address of observor 227 W High St., Ashley, 0.
Placo of obsorvution Ashley, Ohio (ground)
Numbor of objects 1
Distance of object from obsorvor "Quite a distance"
Timo in sicht 4/S
Altitude Could not estimate
a slow-moving
Diroction of flicht Southwest
Tactics NO maneuvers
undetermined
silver
Oblong, long end narrow - like silver streek
scetoad n/S
construction n/S
None
Clesr, no clouds near object
N/S - no clouds near object

None

westerly

xr Opalescent - like

Lon » cylindrical b dv, e fire wood

toetod ione
arent construction N/S
Exhuust trails None
Woathor conditions Clear, few clowis in sky but non around
on clouds N/S
or photographs

Manner of disapposrance n/s

Romarks: A plane, which sounded as if it were flying low since there
was an exceptionally low roaring noise,first attracted the attention

Time 1430

Location Delaware, Ohio

Uame of observor Wrs, James B. °tephenson

Occupation of obsorvor Housewife

Address of observor 93 North Franklin Street, Delaware, Ohio

Placo of observation From the ground

Numbor of objects One

Distance of objcct from observer N/S

Timo in sight N/S

Altitude N/S

Direction of flight Southwesterly

Tactics None

Sourd None

Sizo Very large - about the size of a fiii moon in height but much
smaller in width

Color Very white

Shapo Cylindrical, with vapor around the top

Odor dotoctod N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails None

ee

Woathor conditions Clear, no clouds round object

Effoct on clouds W/S

'§kotehes or photographs None

Manner of disappoerance N/S

Romarks: At 1430 Mrs. J. 3B, Stephenson's attention was aitracted from

her window by an object of unusual shape in the sky. Upon going outside

5 i
2

to get a better view it uppeared very white, with no sha. ws at all, was cylindrical
in shape and seemed to have vapor around the top. When first seen, it a»vpeared to

be leaning 2t an angle, and then right itself and move along "perpendicular" to the
It appeared not to be moving at first, but upon a closer look it was seen
uthwesterly direction, without sound or manueverings, and re-
clear, and no exhaust trails were

of a full moon in height, but

ground,
moving slowly in a
maining at the sare altitwie, The weather was

large, about tbe size of
to compare it with, she could not

seen. the object seemed very
much smaller in width. Since there was ncething

size. No statement was made as to whether or not witness heard an

be sure of the
airplane,

ae UR” i
7 4 S Es
CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

§ April 1948 Incidont # ll2e
Time 130
Location Delaware, Vhio

amo of observor Rev. “ames B, Stephenson

Cecupation of obsorvor Pastor

Address of obsorvor 93 N, Franklin Street, Velaware, Ohio

Placo of observetion From the ground
Numbor of' objocts One

Distanco of objoct from obsorvor N/S
Timo in sightN/S

Altitudon/s

Speod Slow

Diroction of flig¢ht Southwesterly
Tactics None

Sound None

Sizo Not Stated

Color ihite

Shepo Verticle, larger at the bottom and narrow at the top
Odor dotectod None

Apparont construction N/S

Exhaust trails None

Woathor conditions Clear

Effect on clouds N/S

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance N/S

Romarks: Witness first thought that object was a plane on fire, as
it was surrounded by a vaporous substance. A plane was heard, and

i+-seemed low and made ea greatdealof noise, After a few seconds' study
object became clearly outlined and looked similar to a vertical cylinder,
large at the bottom and narrow at the top, with streamers or streaks of
vapor attached. “t gave the appearance of a white cloud, but did not behave
as a cloud. lt retained its shape and maintained a steady movement on a
straight course against the wind. The Delaware airport was alerted for its
appearance, but after a half hour it had not been sighted there.

ys, Yohn Ber en

sorvor Housewife
111 North -sashington Street

From the ground

ir conditi

on clouds v

s or photorraphs None

r of disappocranco Disappeared from view behind the trees

Romarks: ‘nis object appeared like a concentrated bit of cloud
4

xtlin The size could not be determined,

except it was clearly o

F

9 April 19hé
1510
tion Montgomery, Alabama

tamo of observor Robert
Cceupation of obsorvér Pilot
.ddress of observor lactics Div., Air Tactical Se 001, Tyndall AF Base
Placg of observetion From the air
Nunbor of objects One
Distanco of object from otsorver n/S

Timo in sicht Five seconds

Altitude Approximately 16000 feet
Speod In excess of the viewer's 310 mph air speed

Diroetion of flicht Northwest

None

Top part eight feet diameter

Silver

Had the appearance of a parachute carrying a large canister or

ball
Oder dotected N/S

Apparent construction N/S Ge ae ee ee
sxhaust trails None
Weathor conditions Clear, visibility and ceiling wlimited
Effoct on cloudsn/S

Skotchcs or photographs - Sketch (trip)

Manner of disappearance N/S

Romarks :Lt.Col Robert B, Hughes first sighted the object_hefore com-

pleting an 160° left turn over the town of Montgomery, alabama.
E

The object, sighted at ten o'clock off his left wing, appeared to be a
silver disc. He immediately completed a sharp bank to the left and was
able to get a better look at the object, anddescribed it as follows:

"Top part of the object approximately eight feet in diameter, silver
in color, had the appearance of a parachute. Attached to the bottom of this
nad been a dark cable or shrowl which appeared to be approximately five feet
long. Suspended upon the cable had been a large canister or pall (Golonel
Hughes could not discern which) also silver in color, This canister or
ball had theappearance of being slightly to the rear of the top part of the
object. The overall appearance of theobject, looked something similar to
the parachute and canister containing photographic testing equipment dropped
from a V2 rocket."

At the time he lost sight of the object, “ughes' aircraft had been
indicating 310 miles per hour air speed, amd the object had appeared to fly
away from him on a horizontal plane rather than a vertical decline.

A sketch of the object is attached,

18 Apr 4g
1306 hours
Approx 1 mile north of Fairbanks, Alasks
nhserver Lt Aytch Johnson
of obsorver lst Lt (discharged f/USAF as per authority
Para 1, SO. 00 dated 28 May 4S) (see)

Ft Worth, Texas

Over city of Fairbanks, Alaska

few mimtes
2000=3000 ft
‘d= 250-300 miles (traveled 500 feet in 1 or 2 seconds)

Diroction of flicht Northeast towerd southwest

Oscillated from horizontal plane

rapid speed)

No sound
siz &" in diameter
Solor silvery

she po round and flat

Appnrent construction n/S

Exhuust trails mo trails of any kind

iioathor conditions Weather clear and visibility uf
Effoct on clouds n/S

Skotehes or photographs none

Mamer of disappearance 4/S

Romarks: (over)

OT) a etea ee repten eh ara

19 Apr 4g
1615

Over Greenville AF Base, Greenville,S, C.

rvor Ss lst Lt Francie W. Hennin, Jr,
& lst Lt Robert &,.Loomis, USAF
r Both attached to Liaison sq. Greenville

ebuory

sorvor ® Greenville AF Base, Greenville,&, C.

Greenville AF Base 1

= 3-1 at first , 2 later

from ¢ rvor 15,000 to 20,000 ft overhead
2 minutes

15,000 to 2qooo ft

Undetermined, Stationary, then rapidly accelersting and
cligbing
fliyht Morth

Hover then acceleration and climbing

Observed trail formation
none audible (7?) - states: Witnesses were -ttracted by sound
of fighter aircraft in vicinity
undetermined (no mention made of these)

white

elliptical
tectod W/S

construetion n/S

trails No exhest or condensation trail

CAVU

in distance

Witnesses were attracted by sound of fighter aircraft in vicinity.
They started searching the sky for the aircraft and sighted the
objects. When first sighted, the witnesses thought theobjects mizht
be weather balloons. However, when they accelerated so rapidly in

a northerly heading, they determined the objects could not be balloons,
They were in a trail formation on a North-South line, and moved so
rapidly they wereout of sight within a few seconds. From original
sighting in the stationary position to their disappearance, a period
of gpproximately two (2) mimtes elapsed, om which the objects were

in a stationary position for approximately one (1)mimte.

NOTH: Wind at 20,000 ft from 340° at 10 kmots per hour (1230 EST Rpt)
Wind at 20,000 ft 32° at 13 knots per hour at (1830 EST Rpt)

Nearest weather station releasing balloons is Spartanburg, 5. C.
One black balloon was released at 1230 EST.

O

In approximately 2 minutes objects had disappeared

Objects begen moving in a NNE direction’ and rapidly accelerating
and climbing, S

When first seen objects were in a semi-stationary position.

First one object was sighted, next, another one appeared,

ll Mer 4s

night

, Near shores of James Bay,

of observer Ve de Pratt

ecupation of obsorvor Employe of Hudson Bay Co.

orvor Moose Factory
ction Moose Factory, Canaca
‘ objects 1
of object from obsorvor /S
Timo in sight N/S
Altitudo N/S

ed meteoric

ima No noise

Sizo Size of fmtinamen football
Color 24S Blue flame

or dotectod N/S
Apparont construction meteor
Exhaust trails gmamgmdcight N/S
Woathor conditions Night
Bffoct on clouds. N/S
Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance exploded

Romarks: (over)

A big ball of blue flame, seemingly the size of a football streaked out

of the sky and exploded neer this Northern Ontario community (Moose Factory)
near, the shores of James Bay, The explosion lit up the entire area brighter
than daylight, the whole ball disappezsred and a second later a streak of
orange light shot upward from where the ball wes last seen. The orange streak
was gone within a second. Witnesses heard no noise of any kind.

NOTE: Th&s ties up with earlier reports from Cochran, 150 miles south of
Moose Jaw where several citizens reported seeing what they thought
to be a meteor around 11.40 P. M. EST Thurs,

One witness ( a Mrs. Charles Giles) said that the object plunged
downward like a spent rocket in the northern sky. She described it
as about the size of a full moon which gave the appearance of
disintegration as it fell.

ee ie oak,
CHECKLIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Dato 7 May 4g Incidont # yo 117

Time 1500 to 1700

Location Memphis, Tenn,

Name of observor Miss Jean Bray, Housekeeper et mtx al (see other side)
Occupation of obsorvor Housekeeper

Address of observor 253 W. Waldorf Ave., Memohis, Tenn.
Placo of observation Memphis, Tenn.

Numbor of objects or 60

Distance of object from obsorvor WN/S

Timo in sight n/S

Altitude extremely high

Speoa faster than any aircraft witnesses had ever seen

Direction of flight easterly

Tactics Most traveled in straight line altiio some of them
zig-zagged,
Sound None
Size Very small
Color shiny - like bright aluminum
Sha po unknown - possibly like meteor
Odor dotectod n/s
Apparent construction u/s
Exhaust trails Some objects teemed to have a silvery tail
which might have been exhmst
Woathor conditions CAVU, wind: 330 to 340°, 15 MPH at surface increasing
to 66 MPH at 20,000; Surface temp: 72°; dew point 43° relative humidity LO
Effoct on clouds N/S
Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance n/s

Romarks: (over)

Fifty td60 shiny objects were seen moving at a speed faster than any
known aircraft on ean Easterly heading at an extrenely high altitude,
For the most part these objects traveled in a straight line altho
some of them zig-zegged slightly. No sound wes heard. Some objects
seemed to have a silvery tail which might have been exhaust. These
objects could not have been weather balloons as only one balloon was
released by the Memhis Weather Buream that day,

NOTE: Witnesses thought they had seen a meteor; however subsequent
investigation seemed to preclude this possibility.
See Supp II to Trip Report to Memhis - Visit with Dr. Paul
Herget of the Observatory of Cincinnati, Ohio, in which Dr,
Herget expressed serious doubt that the 50 or more objects
observed 7 May 48 in Memhis were meteors. He, was, however
unable to offer any explanation as to a possible identification
of the objects.

Dr. Hynak of OSU and Dr. Lincoln LaPaz are to be consulted
about the possibility of timis these being a meteor shower,

Witness of this incident were: J. Kaiser, salesman
Weldorf Ave., Memhis

J. Kaiser, housewife
Waldorf Ave., Memchis, Tenn,

lo30 hours
Berlin Lichtenrade, Kirchbachstrasse 2
Dr Ormens,
Former guided missile expert at Exeinmetall Borsig
Berlin Lichtenrade, Kirchbachstrasse 2

As above

Sa

14 kilometers

rather fast
South to North

No sound reported

“white point"
r White
truction B/S
No exaust trail reported

clear

" ot “poet
Lg® i i

& a e ‘ 4 9 Gn is

CHECKLIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

20 Fed ig Incident # 119d

Time 0700

Location, Villa Hayes (10 miles NE of Asuncion)
“amo of observor dam Rancher and laborers
Occupation of observor Rancher

Address of observor infhe "Chaco"

Ploco of obsorvition Ranch house in neighborhood of Villa Hayes
Numbor of objocts 1

Distance of object from observer u/s

Timo in sicht n/s

Altitudo 1,000 ft

Snood less than that of a plane

Diroction of flicht west to east

Suetrac ie

ind n/S

construction N/s
ist trails WN/S - gave off an intense green color
conditions N/S
; on clouds N/S
photographs None

ranco W/S

N/S - aro nd 7 Feb 4s
Vejle, Denmark
field laborars
r W/S

Gadbjerg (neur Vejle)

r 200 meters altitude
NtS) 03 «seconds
200 meters altitude

high speed

KeLIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Incidort # Jo]

9 January 1916
Timea 2330
Loeation Cartersville, Georgia, 34° 10! Ny 84° Ug W
Name of observer Hugh DuBose
Occupation of obsorvor Pilot (RAL)
4ddress of observor W/S
Placo of obsorvstion Air
Numbor of objects One
Distance of object from obsorvor N/S
Timo in sight w/S
altitude 3000 feet
Speed 100 mph
Direction of flight 175° M
Tactics “one
Soumd N/S
Light, sky-blue
She po Circular, except for the top quarter wilich was f
Shaped
Odor dotectod N/S
Apparont construction N/S
Exhaust trails None
Woathor conditions N/S Cf hoe a ee
Effoct on clouds “/e
Skotches or photographs None
Manner of disappearance 10° below the horizon

Romarks: When object crossed the path of the witness all that could
be observed was an intense blue flame, in a shape circular except for

; : 1 mass of blue flane

further statec his connection ith RAF pilots in ihgland during

"Buzz Bombs" chased by t ose RAF pilots at night. Arthur Porter, purser
on this flight 9 January LA, also saw the object, the flame only, but

ir, DuBose stated on April 29 that seventy-five cattle had died of an

unknown disease on the farm of a “r. Gordy at Newman, Georgia, and expressed

eoneern over a possible connection hetween the unidentified o' ject he
reported and tiis unusual fatality among healthy cattle. However, the
Atlanta “ffice of ‘he Animal Industry Division, U.S. Department of Agri-

culture, advi that this "unknown" disease has persisted for over a

year and other cases repeated elsewhere in the country for some time back.

There apparently remains no basis for connection between the object “r,.
DuBose reports and the death of seventy-five cattle at Newnan, Ceorgia,

{rained bal.oon observer, Geophysics

han any known aircraft
of flicht N/S
Eratic - completing a large loop after its downward descent,
then soaring upward and disaprearing suddenly
None
Size Lar ge
Color Grey=white
Shapo  Rownded, indistinct form
Odor dotectod /s
Apparont construction N/S
Exhaust trails N/S
Wcathor conditions C.A.V.U.
Effoct on clouds N/S
Sketches or photographs None
Manner of disappeesrance Disappeared suddenly

Romarks: This was evidently the one object, of two sighted by
another witness, that veered to the right and down. Its vaguely

AGCOINVIi od
CHECKLIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 5 April 198 Incidont #122 a

Time Afternoon

Location Holloman Air Force Base

Name of observor Mr, Johnson

Occupation of obsorvor Trained balloon observer, Geophysics “ab Section
Address of observor N/S

Placo of obsorvstion From the ground

Numbor of objects One

Distance of object from obsorver N/S

Timo in sight 40 seconds

Altitude Very high

Speed Tremendous

Diroction of flight West

Tactics Object mdde three vertic 1 loops, upon completion of which it

it disappeared in a large arc to the west
Soumd None

Sizo Considering the moon the size of an orange, the object was the
size of a dime .
Color N/S

Shapo Bore some resemblance to, but definitely not, a balloon
Odor dotectod None

Apparont construction N/S

Exhaust trails N/S

Weathor conditions N/S

Effoect on clouds N/S

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance Disappeared suddenly

Romarks: Presumably Mr. Johnson saw the object that did not veer

to the right. (See Incident #112 b) He stated that it was absolutely

Silenton the desert that afternoon and that no awlible noise was heard
from the object. ‘either was any signal nor atmospheric noise heard on
the 40O0-meter receiver to which he was listen ing at the time. He further
stated that the wind at high altitude that day was very calm being only
10 to 15 miles an hour from the west at 65,000 feet.

The statements of other witnesses to this incident are contained in
reports 112 and 112b.

All witnesses agreed that the object was very high, moved faster than
any knomm aircraft, possessed a rounded, indistinct form, and disappeared
suddenly rather than fading away in the distance. It was wider observation
1/2 minutes or slightly less. +t was definitely not a balloon, and
apparently not manned, judging from the violent maneuvers which were
performed at a high rate of speed.

faster than ayy knomaircraft

tn
as

1e right, started dowm and was
Second ond made arc into the
4is appear s&s ridenly.

: .Oo VILEW.
west at a terrific speed and

nue

Had apnearance of a uy that is, irregularly
rounded and slight! 1Cé O1 Pp

ctod w/S

construction
trails w/s
conditior

clouds

r

Romarks: Mr,

Chance was the only one of the

uilt
saw two objects. When he first perceived

three witnesses

an oe

» they vere

; x a

straight up then one veered tothe right, started dom, and was lost to
view, Directing his attention to the other object, Mr. Chance saw it
arc into the west at a terrific speed ani disappear suidenly. ~r. Chance
described the object as being of a golden hue, rather indistinct in
outline and possessing somewhat the appearance of a major's insignia,
that is, irregularly rounded ami slightly congave on top,

The statements of cther witnesses to this incident are contained in
reports 112 ami li2a,

Ail witnesses agreed that the object was very high, moved faster t han
any known aircraft, possessed a rounded, indistinct form, and disappeared
suddenly ratver than fading away in the distance, It was under observation
1/2 minutes or slightly less. It was definitely not a balloon, and
apparently not manned, judging from the violent maneuvers which were
performed at a high rate of speed,

of observor

Occupation of obsorvor

c

ss of observor

from observer

Altitudo
od
Direction of flir

Tactics

Color
Shapo
Odor dotectod
construction
Exhaust trails
Woathor conditions
ont
Effcoct on clouds /°
Ss or photographs
Manner of disappearance

Romarks:

6500 yards - 18000 yards

Color wW/S
Shapo WN/S
Cdor dotectod N/S
apparent construction jV/S
Exhaust trails W/S
athor conditions C.A.V.U.

Effoct on cloudsN/S

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappoerance Target strength was S5 fading at 18,000 yards

Romarks: This incident is the result of a radar sighting. Copy
is also filed in radar sighting file.

' ; x " ie He.
term OF % be. ad

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 2 May 19h8 Incidont # 105

Time Night

Location St. “ouis, Missouri, 0°00'N 90°15'W
Namo of observer N/S

Occupation of obsorvor N/S

Address of obsorvor N/S

Placo of observation Ground

Numbor of objects One

Distanco of objoct from obsorver N/S

Timo in sight N/S

Altitude WN/S

Speod N/S

Direction of flight N/S

Tactics N/S

Sound N/S

Size N/S

Color Fhosphorescent after dark

Sha po Bird

Odor dotoctod N/S

Apparent construction N/S

Exhaust trails N/S

Woathor conditions N/S
Effoct on clouds N/S
Sketches or photographs None
Manner of disappearanco N/S

Romarks: Se Incident #123

a

The object appesred to the pilot to be a yellow (or
Sas ae ‘ - .
light colored/ balloon, am attracted attention principally because

NTIPTREN Prva vn DAMA
jiflED FYI r OBJECTS

Af 2 DL 4 ils

Lake Doiran, along the Yugoslav—Greek frontier
of observor N/S
vecupation of obsorvor N/S
idress of observor N/S
Placo of observation Ground
Numbor of objects One
ject from observer N/S

imo in

Altitude 4000 feet

sound Like artillery shell (shrill whine)

Size N/S

Shapo Flying dise
Odor dotoctod N/S
apparent construction
Exhaust trails n/S
Woathor conditions N/S

‘ect on clouds wW/S
skotches or photographs None

ner of disappoeranco wN/S

A press dispatch quoted residents of the Lake Doiran

tugoslav—Greek frontier as Saying they saw a "flying

or photorraphs

r of disappoaranco

Romarks: The above covers si;t ag same objects by Earl Roush,

‘ew fork Central System Car Ins Bob White, New York Central

CHECK*LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

31 May 1948 : Incidont # 129
Time 1320
Location Wilmington, North Carolina, 34° 14! N, 77° 57' W
Name of observer “rs, H, D, Alspach .
Occupation of obsorvor N/S
Address of observor 709 South 6th
Placo of observetion Ground
Number of objocts One
Distanco of object from observor N/S
Timo in sightn /S
Altitude Awfully high
Diroction of flight 90°

Tactics None

Sizo As large as an arm, and about 3 feet long
Color w/S
Sha pe Vplong
Apparent construction N/S
Exhaust trails Mmitted smoke
Woather conditions
Effect on clouds N/S

tches or photographs None

disapp arance ? /S

e Romarks: liysterious sky object was sighted by Mrs. Alspach, her

surnam, It came at first at a fast

au

speed from the
Cape Fear River
a little to the

+ Awa wie
VV Halu

The local office of it

uli Jd,

supposition by Bluethenth:

\ dpe AS Wis
Object could have been a F
such plane in the sky there

Olomon, that

tnere wasS no

Incidont #130

sity, “ontana

4“oodrich Company

Rosser Ave., Bismark, N,. D.

est of Plevna, traveling west

165

Ground, Route

obiccts One

int, approx. 2500 feet

object from obsorver At

Some twenty minutes

the speed of the Northwest Airlines planes
th, then west

flight West, slightly south, then

Fairly large compared with an aircraft

te — (might have had slight bluish-white tinge)

{ gall

\ront construction N/S = but apparently meteor=like

ADDPé

trails A long bright light shooting from under it

conditions “opnlight, out clouly

Effoct on clouds N/S
skotehes or photographs None = Map forwarded showing location of object
Manner of disappoaranca Flew in a dark cloiw bank

Math

Romarks: See Supplement

The B, P, Goodrich Compan;
1653 Hennepin Avenue
Minneapolis, Minnesota

15 W. Rosser Avenue
Bismarck, N. Dakota
June 18, 198

Col *¥. &. Clingemnan
U, &, Army Air Forces
Wright Field
Dayton, Ohio

Refer = HCIAXO-3
Dear Sir: -

fn reply to your letter of Jume 15th in which there are several questions
which you desire answ red to the best of my ability - with reference to
the object which + saw flying through the air between Plevna am Miles
City Montana on the night of May 17th, + will answer them and give you a
graphic description again with a little more elaboration than my previous
letter - if that is possible,

Question: - Did the entire object appear to be glowing, or did it give

the effect of carrying lights. Answer: This thing seemed to be a ball of
bright white light - and I could not make out if it was being carriedor just
what made it ¢o - however, it did disturb me quite a little because after

stopping to view it at the Powder River Bridge I could not hear motors
humming such as an aircraft in these parts might have, and I therefore tried
to find out just what it was by the use of .my field glasses,

(b) Question: - An estimate of the size of the object in comparison with
some other knowm object. Answer — the size of the light which was very
brilliant would indicate that it was fairly large compared with aircraft -
and + would say that this exceedingly bright light which was one light

and not several was as bright as the headlight on a locomotive, only
about three times that bright and without direction. By this I mean that
this light simply glowed very bright and was not a directed light.

(c) Que tion: = An estimate of the speed of the object in comparison with

the jet type or conventional aircraft. Answer: This object flew at about
twice the speed of any aircraft that Northwest Airlines planes fly - because
it would appear coming thro where I was traveling west on Highway #212 or #12
as we call it out here appearing only faintly first and then growing larger
as it approached over the hills north of the highway - until it seemed to
hang there off in the northwest of me brightly and then would turn south
toward the highway there it became real bright and then would start back

Vest again and fly out of sight. This t ing did this several times - which
actually got my goat - if I may put it that way. (d) Question: Did the
object appear to be circling at random or didit follow a definite flight
pattern, Answer: As ~ have explained before - the object appeared first when

VW ite EU

the West = then turning slightly South and turning in a big swing and
then heading West again - flying out of sight into the dark black
cloud bank out of sight - then reappearing, and it did this several tines.
(e) Question: = Is it possible that its disappearance into a "heavy clouwl
bank" might have been caused by clouds obscuring reflected moonlight
from a hig ly polished surface, Answer: - No - I have seen aircraft
- but this was not anything like that -

this thing glowed brightly white light such as any real white brilliant
light might. The moon was not bright enough to reflect polished light
unless the craft might have been South of me in the direct light of the
moon = which showed (the moon) fran time to tim through the clouis. This
objedt was in theblack section of the sky Over to the North of me and
Slightly west, and was a steady oncoming light growing brighter as it
came, and had the appearance of Something carrying this light in the air-
but without sound, and it certainly was close enough to me to have heard
motors,

I thought it might have been some kind of a jet aircraft that I perhaps had
never seen ~ because we as civilians know very little as to what might be
ghing on in defense or experimental mechanics however + "felt it my duty to
report the thing regardless as to what it might have been, ‘This was
Somewhat difficult for me to do because of the crackpot stories making

the rounds in some sections about flying saucers etc., but for the life

of me this had all the ear marks of Just that kind of a deal.

I have traveled this road about which + have releated this sighting many
many times and at night Winter and Summer - and have never before in my
life seen anything like this = so naturally 1 was somewhat alarmed about
it, and have steadfastly kept the whole thing to mselr. I will certainly
be on the lookout for the damed thing the next trip I make through this
Same area which is generally after dark - because most of the time I work
from Lemmon South Dakota or Hettinger North Dakota dong this highway to
Miles City which is about one days work ith my Dealers. In times like
these 1 feel as before stated anything of this nature which we are not
familiar with we are duty bound to report to our Defense Forces who may
be better equipped to understand the unfamiliar than we are,

Yours very truly,

4A. BONNEVILLE - Territory Mgr
for the B. *, Goodrich Company

vd Eee & ¥

THE B. F. GOODRICH C

Minneapolis 3, Minnesota

1115 west Rosser Ave
Bismark, N. D,

5348

United States Army - Intelligence Div.
Washington, D. Cc,

Gentlemen:=-

On the night of May 17th at about 11:30 PM driving from Baker, Montana
to Miles City Montana on U.S, ighway 12 just West of Plevna, Montana before
getting to the hills 1 noticed a very bright object in the sky to the North-
west. The sky was overcast in the West but to the South the moon could be
seen at times - with a broken sky. Having traveled this sare route for
many years - about 15, I am pretty well used to open prairie road at night
and can tell a star from an wmusual object when I see it,

Northwest Airlines travel a Western route just North of this route
also, but 1 stopped at the Powder River Bridge where the road dips con-
siderably down from a high ridge - cut off my car motor and watched this
object as it sailed around in the sky - which «t times close and others
seemed to speed away into the heavy clowl bank to the West and then later
reappearing, at a very bright white light at what I would juige about not
more than several miles away or closer, I carry a pair of field glasses
with me, and after stopping the car engine watched this thing through my
glasses, which seemed to appear as a small object with a long very bright
light shooting from the under part of it. Because of the speed of the
object and the darimess it was very difficult to make out what it might
be, but I am sure that if I had had a more powerful glass I might have
made it out.

I am perfectly sincere and do not drink so the foregoing is absolutely
the truth. ith some of this newspaper funabout flying saucers etc, this
had all of the appearance of just that- and in stopping the car if this
had been an aeroplane I would certainly have been able to hear the motors,

I stopped at a service station just before getting to the Powder River
Bridge but they hai all gone to bed so did not have anyone along with m
to witness the object as it flew through the air. Jt stayed around this
area for about 20 minutes and then flew off through the heavy cloud bank
to the West.

I am enclosing a map showing the location of the foregoing.
Yours very truly,
The B, F. Goodrich Company

/s/ Vim. Bonneville
Territory Manager

Jccupation

Ciameter
Color
Shape
Odor detected
Apparent construction
Exhaust trails
Teather conditions
Effect on clouds
Sketches or photographs

wie
Manner of di 7

Remarks So alrere
of Scott

sighted.

J@ "OT RIOTE!
CHECK-LIST + UNIDENTIFIED RL¥ING OBJECTS

Date 20 = 26 Fed 4g

Time Usually around 2130 hours

Location N/S (Norway Denmark & Sweden)
INC{DENT 13%

Name of observer N/S

Occupation of observer N/s

Address of observer N/S

Place of observation N/S

Number of objects N/S

Distance of object from observer N/S

Time in sight N/S

Altitude From tree-top level to 20,000 £

Speed one to two miles per second

Direction of flight Come from direction of Pennemunde

Tactics N/S

Sound N/S

Size N/S

Color . (green tail)

Shape N/S

Odor detected N/6

Apparent construction N/S (xEayeexat

Exhaust trails green

Weather conditions N/S
Effect on clouds N/S
Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance N/S

26. Remarks The trend of these objects to anvear et2130 hours |

Pd
might be significant... . a am are

. r PS
POU IC? SEAN SS

CHECK-LIST « UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 28 May 19,8

1500 hours (Eastern Daylight Saving Time)
Enroute to ‘
Location Me fridge Fld,, Mt. Clemens, Mich f MacDill Fld

Position: © miles due east of Monroe, Michigan

Name of observer M/ Set trnest Davis, Jr. (colored)

Time

Occupation of observer w/Set
Address of observer Selfridge Field
Place of observation 6 miles due east of Monroe, Michigan

Number of objects 2

Distance of object from observer

25 to 4% miles to mmx left

Time in sight 30 seconds

Altitude approx 8,000 ft

Speed KKH OGG Over 1,00 miles per hour

Direction of flight South West from 35° at 8:00 o'clock position
Tactics Pursued straight course

Sound nfs

Size Appeared to be four feet in diameter
Color Shiny brass

Shape round

Odor detectea N/S

Apparent construction n/s

Exhaust trails None

Clear, high overcast at 18,000 ft; thin stratus
layer broken at 8,000 ft, lateral visibility:

Effect on clouds w/e” to 15 miles

Weather conditions

Sketches or photographs Sketch

f waukate ; 7
Manner of disappearance x/s : a Hg

Remarks Discrepancy as to position of 2nd object in group 2
as sighted by Lt Kokblomise (Inc 13)
Witness perceived only top-side of object. Objects
seen flying over wooded section 67

@ f 1 (Mh COP FAN 2 (> eS
: wel? ‘ Ve u ; . a tice bet?

4

CHECK-LIST « UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date Between 15th & 20th Aug ¥

Time 2130 M3T ‘

INCIDENT: 135 : Location Ranid City AF Base, Weaver, S.D,

Name of observer Maj Elmer H, Hammer, #@. (a0-4.6014)
Occupation of observer Intel Officer

28th Bombardment Groun (VR)
Address of observer Ranid City AFBase

Weaver, S. D,
Place of observation Weaver, S, D,
Number of objects 12 (Approx)
Distance of object from observer 4 miles
Time in sight N/S
Altitude 10,000 ft to anprox 6,000 ft.
Speed 500 MPH +
Direction of flight Anproached first from NW ‘
then turn to right and disappeared in Si
Tactics tight diamond-shamed formation
Sound no noise heard
Size Length: 100+ ft estimate
Color Yellowish-white - brilliant
Shape HLliptical
Odor detected N/S
’ Apparent construction N/S
Exhaust trails None
Weather conditions Clear, no clouds, stars visible, wind, calm
LE visibility 30+
Effect on clouds none . a ear ore

Sketches or photographs Sketches + i J

Manner of disappearance Disappeared on a SW heading

26. Remarks There sppears to be minor discrepancies as to
speed and altitude in the renort given verbally 6 y

to Glasebrook and ltr to this Hq f/Yaj Hammer

Incident No. 136
Date and Time of Observation: 30 dane 19h6 at 2140

Where Sighted: South Knoxville, Temessee

Observer's Position:
(i, e., ground, air, control tower, etc.)

Name and Address of Observer: Mrs, Whitehouse, South Knoxville, Tem.

Occupation and/or hobbies: wife of Major Harvey J. Whitehouse
Commanding Officer, ASU, 3319 Tennessee

Attention Attracted by:

Number of Object(s) Seen: 3

Size of Object(s): w/s

Color of Object(s): orange

Shape (Sketch if Possible) Ball

Nature of Luminosity:
(directed beam of light?)

titude of Object? 30,000 ft
(estimated)

Estimated Distance of Object from Observcr: N/8

Estimated Speed of Object: 1,000 MPH

Time in Sight: 3 minutes (according to Mre Whitehouse)
; 3 seconds (according to ORC instructors)

Tactics:

Sound Made by Object(s): N/B

Direction of Flight of Object(s) wege

Apparent Construction: ggpe

Effect on Clouds: u/s

Exhaust Trail (Color of): "streamer of bluish color trailing"

Menner of Disappeerance! gyer horigon
Weather Conditions at Time of Sighting: N/s
Peculisrities Noted:

Summary of Incident:
(See attached page)

Date 40 Jure 1918
be
rime 40
° sation 3. Knoxville, Tenn
be eo bserver Mr Tryus W. Setliff
A ation of observer w/s
( tress of observer Oakridge, Tennessee
? i vatior Knoxville, Tenn
r or djyect 1
. stance of object from observer nA

- Time in sight 4 seconds
ll. Altitude LESSGALLSSXPSHXKSHK 30,000 ft
Speed 1,000 MPH
si. irection of flight Westerly
4, Tactics n/s

5 ind n/S

ize n/S

17, Color Orange Color

Shape Ball

Apparent construction Fire

l. Exhaust trails Bluish Color

None .

#. Sketches or photographs
- sanner of disappearance Over horizon to West
6. emarks

QW

7 dul 4s

2114 and 2115
Locetion Ghanel Hill, ¥. C.

of observor James Eaves, Lt., Us S. Naval Reserve
Occupation of obsorvor Mathematics Instructor
idress of observor University of North Carolina
of obsorvetion Chanel Hil), N. C.
of objccts three (3)
anco of object from obsorver N/§
imo in sight A proximately one (1) mimte

Altitudo By treme
Speod High
Diroction of flight Fast Northeast
Tactics W/8
Sound Jat
Sizo N/S
Color n/8
Sha po 4/8
Odor dotectoa /8
Apparent construction n/8
Exhaust trails Not Visible
Woathor conditions Clear
Effoct on clouds x/8

C1

Skotehes or photographs Mone

Manner of disappearance n/s

Romarks:

Incident: 137

to a point in the rear. Objects shaped like cigars. Appeared about the
size of an airplane in the sky. They were about 3-1/2" in length.
Didn't have wings or any apparent means of getting around in the skye

Incidort #

—tmmanaer i578

Time 2114 and 2116
Location Chapel Hill; N.C.
Mame of observer H. W. Daniels
Cccupstion of obsorvor Capt., Infantry, Reserve
address of observor Box 188, Chapel Hill

of observetion (Chapel Hill, N. C.
Number of objects three (3)
Distance of object from obsorver N/S
Timo in sight Aoproximately one (1) mimte
Altitude Extreme
Diroction of flicrht East Northeast
Tacties N/S
Souma Jet

Sizo N/S

Color n/s

She po n/s

Odor dotected u/s
4p} arent construct ion n/s

ry
if

Exhaust trails Not Visible

Weather conditions Clear
Effoct on clouds n/s
Skotches or photographs None
Manner of disappearance y/§

Romarks:;:

a ia abet FLYING An JECTS
F ‘ Its UB

ma SP Ly Pl vB

Incidont #136

Occupation of obscrvor P-ysewife
AAaApece f en } rc
Address of observer 2°79 Avalon Ave.

Columbus, 0.
Place of obdDservetion Ground

Numbor of objects two (2)

Distance of object from obsorvor 4/5

Timo in sight four (4) mimtes

Altitude Juiged to be around 3000 feet

Speod Ccvld not be estimated around
Direction of flight WNMret headed NE them North
Tactics Bobbed up and down

Soumd Hone

Sizo With binoculars (Type M-3, 6 x 30) about 3 1/2" in length by
1" in diameter
Color §ilver

Shepo Like a cigar or torpedo
Odor dotectod n/s

apparent construction Motallics

Exhaust trails Yone

Weather conditions Clear, sumlight, no clouds
Effect on clouds None (Phere were none)
Sketches or photographs Jone

Manner of disappoeranco Faded away

Romarks:
(Over )

ee ee oe

Mrs. Zittek said that the objects looked like s eethine going through air currents.
They had a blunt nose and the tail was obecured. At first they lookei like «

dark blot. Both ends were indistinct. Thay were vis {ble for three or ‘our minutes
and began to fale away.

Subject's powers of sbservalion were Checkec on air craft flying in the area and
were found to be good as far as direction and movement, but poor for ‘isteme
emi altitude.

A check at Patterson Field Operatio.s showed two F-20's in the air at the tine of
sighting.

Capt. Darnell, pilot of one F-£0, was flying a loose formation in trail of Mt.
Collins while pacing him on & calibrated specd check. The aircraft were not
equipped with’ wing tip tanks. The pilots stated that they were in the Columbus
Area. Mrs. Zittek position was frou a three quarter reer positon at sighting.

dn article was published by the Columbus Citir:s News Paper, Columbus, Ohio, & Jul ug.

et @

information reeeived from Captain boyd, District Intelligence office,
320 Old Fost vifice, Colusias, thio

Unsonventional eiraraft sighted by Mra. Wilds Zittek, 2579 Avalon Avee,
Columbus at 0920 on S duly. ‘eather was clear, sun shining brightly,
no @loude near the object. She first saw tw object with her naked eye,
then spent two minutes Iecking for binseslars. Observed the object for a
about two minutes with them. There was no flying objects; both appeared
te have a blunt front and seemed to taper to a point at the rear. The
Shape Was Very much like a cigar. The sun was shining on them and they
appeared tote silver in coler. With the nuked eye, they appeared to be
about the sise of 4 airplane when writing in the sky. They were about
3 1/2" in length and 1" in @ismeter. In other words, they seemed to be
a@ little more tian threes times the diameter in length. Speed was not
estimted. “Observed for approximately four minutes. hen first seen,
they were headed northeast. Seesed te beb up and down rather then pur~
Suing & Set aud steady course. Altitude was judged to be approminately
53000 te ie sound sudible from the object; ao exhaust trail visible.
Firet geen in east goint toward Port Columbus, then moved generally north
there. Bineculars were 3.

REE NESE ERR
The following was broadcast ever the radio this warming (9 dul) but not
persone mot yet interviewed: on 7 July, five members of one family saw
ine object whick locked like pie pans, directly over Port Columbus.

gf 19%

per CT otee

vw &
CHECK*LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 1 July 1918 ; Incidont # 1s

Time Between 2100 and 2200 hours

Location Gahanna, Ohio

Hamo of observer Mr Jack Taylor

Occupation of observer N/S but now active in National Guard
Address of observor n/s

Placo of observation Gahanna, Ohio ( ground )

Numbor of objocts 1

Distanco of objoct from observer n/s

Timo in sight 2 seconds

Altitude 3000 to 4000 ft

Speod terrific

Diroction of flight Northeast to Southwest
Tactics Pursued xkeatckkxtius flat line of flight
Sound None

Sizo KA

Color bright yellow-white

Shapo B/S

Odor dotestod 8/S

Apparent construction luminous

Exhaust trails K/S

Woathor conditions Clear - bright moonlight
Effoct on clouds W/Ss

Skotohes or photographs None

Manner of disappoeranca n/S

Romarks: Wr. Chester Taylor gave the same version as that of his
son, Mre,. Taylor apparently did not observe the phenomenon,

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 30 June 1918 ingidont # shea
Time 11:25 A. M., to 1:27 PM and shortly thereafter
Loeation Heola, South Dakota
Namo of observer Norman Pfutzenreuter
Occupation of obsorvor Chemical Engineer - Amateur Astronomer
Address of observor Hecla, South Dakota
Placo of observation Between Watertown, S. D., & Webster, S. D.
Numbor of objocts 1
Distaneo of objoct from obsorvor n/s
Timo in sight Slichtly over two hours
Altitudo 150 miles (7)

Speod Stationary

Direction of flight Stationary

pprox
Tactics Remained in one/positi om then disintegrated

Sound None
Sizo NAS
Color Like polished aluminum
Shapo Changing
19, Odor dotectod None
20. <Apparont construction Ssemed to be a oluster of parts
21. Exhaust trails Partioles of disintegrating mass loft very faint
trails of vapor
22. Woathor conditions Brilliantly clear (CAVU) - Wind velocity 3 MPH
23. Effoct on clouds No clouds
Skotches or photographs Map showing locations of sightings ~
25. Manner of disappoaranco Disintegrated into s~aller pieces
26. Romarks: Object appeared as oluster of parts which remained fairly

stationary and constant for some two hours when it underwent a rather slow

change in shape, A large chunk fell off, Within the next 2-1/2 minutes the
entire spot started to very slowly disintegrate. Three larger purts moved  —
(over) ve

truction
ist trails

thor condit

on clouds

tches or photographs

Manner of disappearance

Romarks:

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 24 July Me : Incidont # he

‘Time 0230
Location Wear Blackstone, Va. enroute to Raleigh-Durham

Namo of observor Louis Peldwary

Occupation of obsorvor pilot

Address of observor LGA

Placo of obsorvstion Air — neer Blackstone, Va,
Numbor of objocts Qnly trail seen

Distance of object from obsorver n/s

Tino in sight 4B/S

Altituao 43/8

Speod terrific speed -

Direction of flight 230°

Tactics Tradl covered an 80° to 90° arc laterally
Soumd y/S

Sizo n/S

Color S/S Only trail perceived - object
was not seen

Shapo 4&/S
Odor dotectoa B/S
Apparent construction WN/S
Exhaust trails Seemed to be a jet or rocket trail
Woathor conditions at 0230 at Blackstone: 0/70 @ 4GF 112/73/72/
wew 5/987. Greansboro and Raleigh-Buwah had 0/15 plus
Effoct on clouds N/S
Skotches or photographs None
Manner of disappoararico

Romarks: (over)

Supplement to Trip Report to Columbus, Ohio - 31 duly 1948
Ret Atlanta Sighting

THRU: ol Clingerman
70: Col McCoy

1. The object of this trip wes to interview C. L. McKelvie, a passel-
ger aboard the Eastern Airlines DC.3, the night of 24 July 1948,

2. Mr. McKelvie's written statement is essentially as follows: He
was Geoupying the 5th or 6th seat from the front of the plane on the right
and would periodically glance out the window. There wes a full moon which
illuminated the ground and the skies and the ground could clearly be seen.
Frequently they passed cumalus clouds. On one occasion as he was looking
out he observed a sudden streak of light moving in a southeastern direction
acress the airway above the plane, He wondered if it were lightning but
observed the flame moved in a straight line and not in a flare. The color
was bright flame - he thought it was probably a light cherry red - although
the edges were mow of a yellow fleme. He shifted his position in his sert
for better observation, momentarily losing sight of it. Then he saw it
agoin. Ho estimated the flame to be about 1/2 as far above the plane as the

Plame wes obove the ground. He saw no physical shepe - only a etresk of
flame moving in a straight line. The whole experience wae mmentary eo that
detailed observation wes absent. He heard no sound but stated that the
Vibration of the plane was mch greater than normal end that it was not posel~
‘le to hear any sound from the outside,

3. In the interview Mr. McKelvie stated to Maj Llewellyn that the
pilots seemed quite excited and that they appesred nervous over the episode,

PAL/ aw
65410
Bldg 2868
Post 2038

Mr. S. L. Shannon
Eastern Air Lines
Miami, Fla,

The following is a report of an unidentified aircraft which
was sighted by John Whitted and me, as we were twenty miles

southwest of Montgouery Ala. July 24, 1948, as we were on
Eastern's trip 5/6.

At 2:45 A. M. we were cruising at 5,000 feet when there came,

what looked like a Jet type of atreraft to our right and slightly
above meeting us. It wos a clear moonlight night with the visi-
bility excellent; therefore, we were able to view the ship as it
passed for a period of sround ten seconds. It was clear there

were no wings present, that it wes powered by some jet or other

type of power shooting flame from the rear some fifty feet. There
were two rows of windows,which indicated an upper and lower deck, from
inside these windows a very bright light wes glowing. Underneath the
ship there was a blue glow of light.

After it passed it pulled up into some light broken clouds
end was lost from view. There was no prop wash or rough air
felt as it passed,

After talking to the only passenger awake at the time, he saw
only thé trail of fire as it passed and pulled into the clouds.
I called the company at Columbus and asked if there wes any re-
ported jet army creft and requested if the ATC had any aircraft
under control. I was told that no such craft was reported by
either source,

/s/ C. S. Chiles

CG. S. Chiles
Capt EB. A. L.

CHECK=LIST =

ou July 4e

0230
on Between Blackstone, Va. and Greensboro, N..C.

‘amo of observer Capt Perry R. Mansfield,

ccupation of obgorvor Capt on 571/23 EAL

idress of obsorvor EAL

Placo of obsorvetion Between Blackstone, Va. end Greensboro, 3, C.

Numbor of objects 1

of objoct

Altitude n/S

cod meteoric
Jirootion of flirht southerly
Tactics traveling horizontally
3 ound B/S
Sieo §/S
Color n/S
oha po /S
Odor dotoctod 8/5
Apparont construction B/S .
Exhuust trails n/S
Woathor conditions XS CAV
Effoet on clouds n/S
Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappeeranc "died out" in the distance

Romarks: (over)

pilot
At about 0230 on July oh, 1948, C, Kingsley/and Capt Perry R. Mansfield
Saw what they thought was en unueusl meteor, It was brighter than
any ever seen before and traveling in a horizontal direction, sl ightly
above the horizon. It was observed for 3 seconds before it died out,
At no time did it appeer to travel in a downward directicn, Kingsley
& Mansfield discussed the matter that the meteor appe red to be travel-
ing horizontally.

At the time they were trave ing between Blackstone, V»., and Greensboro,
S. C.. The sky was clear and the vieibility unlimited. They were ona
magnetic heading of 240° and estimated the object to be on a bearing of
about 210° fpom them - that is - about 70 © to the left of their heading.

It appesred to be traveling in a southerly direction, above, but close
to the horizon.

NOTE: There is a 15 minute variance in xkem time f/this sighting
(0230) to the rocket sighting at O25 in Athemta some 400 to
475 miles distant. The time (0230) also tellies with Inc l44e
Pilot Louis Feldwary's account of sighting a jet or rocket trail
just efter leeving Blackstone,

Capt Chiles

gy ty operator at Columbus,

aksed him to contact lawsonlld at Benning, Ga., and find

seen and he said that he didn't
the Army had any jet or experimental planes in the vicinity. The

few mimtes later and stated tiat

a
had no planes flying in our area.
the company radio operator saying that a strange

it looked 1iiaome type of rocket ship.

contacted the

3
é
4

les what we had just

the
heard no noise nor did we feel any turbulence from the -

It seemed to be at about 5500 feet.

tor called
to
paseed us

t. Chi
Chiles

R805 3 & ae
ahsttlonivgrice Liaise, 7402
igshidst HA TE lig

Cap
Capt
opera
eported that
reported back
just

and
We passed up Columbus becamse of ground fog and dontinued on to Atlanta

Ht

CRECKeLIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 9 July 1948

Time 1205 AST

Location Fielding Lake

Name of observers lst Lt Dominic! amis homes B, Carpenter
Occupation of obgorvor s(VLR) Ph

+ 4 rh ee wr 8 ; 4
Address of obsorvorm 72nd RON Squadron (VIR) Photogrephic
c/o APC 731, c/o Postmaster Seattle Wachington

. , Tt nt A elre alate r, \ '
Placo of obsorvetion Fielding Lake, Alasike (635°) he 2 5° lio W

Numbsor of objects Approximately

Distance of objoct from obsorver

Timo in sicht 5D seconcs
altitude

~~ over §OO M
. neod ver ae

Diroction of flight

wtinn ( “UF
but mainteined straight

before

Cr r
Wie € LIE Y

tS to aprerentigo monty sn
rotod
construction

Exhaust trails

Woathor conditions

Bffoet on elouds

Sketches or photographs

Manner of disappearance

Romarks:

cry
4

17 July 1948
1650
Loestion Vieinity of San Acacia Dem, 65 miles south of Albuquerque

Name of observor 8 M/Set Wn R, Carter & M/Set Bernard E, Harvey

edupattion of shesx: EAax Carter: Armament technician
cialis ii sii a Harvey: experienced AF non<com

‘dress of obsorvor 428th AFBU Kirtland AF Base

Pleco of obsurvetion Vicimity of San Acacia Dem
bor of objcets 7

Distance of objcet from obsorvor /S
Tino in sight 4/8
Altitudo 20,000 ft
Speod 1,500 MPH (if estimated altitude correct)
Diroction of flirht northerly heading (between north and northwest)
Tactics Maintained formation
Soumd B/S
Sizo B/S
Color Color of aluminum aircraft at high altitude
Shapo Woen overhead: circular, After passing zenith! indeterninate

Odor dotectoa 3/8

Apparent construction metallic

Exhaust trails tone

Woather conditions CAVU At 20,000 ft wind velocity 8 to 10 miles
Effoet on clouds B/S

Skotches or photographs Hone

Manner of disappoeranco 2K In northwest

Romarks ; (over)

eis rope yee Oe
aay t j rt 7 y t wv rt] _& ¥Y so)

About 65 miles south of Albuquerque 7 unidentified objects flying on
northerly heading were observed. Objects initially in V formation at
an estimated altitude of 20,000 ft above earth, Formation varied from
*"V" to "L" to "Q" and then grouped in an irregular formation and a
regular pulsating flashing light was observed from them after they had
passed 30° beyond zenith. ‘The shape was difficult to ascertain. When
directly overhead they were circular and resembled a cluster of balloons
traveling at a great rate of speed. The color was that of aluminum at
high altitude (or white painted aircraft). It the altitude estimation
is correct the speed could be estimated as 1500 MPH, There was no vapor,
smoke or other trail visible. Thay did not appear spherical when viewed
at oblique angle. Disappeared on heading between north and northwest.
AGENTS NOTES: Sgt Carter is a sober industrious, level heeded individnal,

an armament technician of outstanding ability. Definitely

not the type to experience hallucinations. © received

in other instances from this individnal in each instance

proven accurate,

Sgt Harvey is an experienced AF non-com accustomed to
the sight of aircraft at various altitudes and speeds,

EVALUATION OF INFORMANTS: "4"
OF INFORMATION: 3,

CHECK*LIST
27 July 4g
2200
Location Springfield, Ohio

Tame of observor Mrs, H. H. Gibson

Occupation of obsorvor Housewife

idress of observor 1217 East Main St.
Place of observetion Springfield, Ohio
Numbor of objects Ll
Distance of object from obsorvor y/S
Timo in sicht 3 seconds
Altitudo Great height
Spcod That of a jet plane
Diroction of flight orth
Tactics Mone ~ traveled in straight line
3 omd None
Sizo Witness stated object resembled "mge ball"
Color y/S
She pe Round
Odor dotectaod n/s
Apparent construction n/s
Exhuust trails Bright red tail of fire
“cathor conditions Some thunder and lighting
Effoet on elouds /S
Skotehos or photographs Mone
Manner of disappesranco Flew out of sight

Romarks ; (over)

Incident # 147

7G XS eo

CHECK@LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Incidont # 148
28 July ug ————

cation Springfield, Ohio
amo of observor Mrs, Rose Henry
Occupation of obsorvor Hmsewife
address of obscrvor §26 Dibert Ave., Springfield, Ohio
Placo of obsorvetion 826 Dibert Awe., Springfield, Ohio
Numbor of objects -1l
Distanco of object from observer u/s
Timo in sight lst time: 5 minutes, 24 time: 15 mimtes
Altitudo u/s
Spood Remained nearly stationary
Diroction of flight 4§/S
Tactics Hover ing

Sound Witmess thought she heard sound of plane before she
saw the object

42° About the size of a basketball
Color Intense yellow

Shapo Round
Odor dotectod n/S

Apparent construction 4/S

Exhaust trails n/S

Weathor conditions n/S

Effect on clouds 4/S

Skotches or photographs None
Manner of disappearance Faded away

Romarks: (over)

On morning of 26 July (about 0400) Mrs Rose Henry happened to look out

of her bedroom window towerd the northeast and saw an object the size of

a basketball which gave off an intense yellow light. It remained for some
5 minutes and appeered to fade away. fSmumrax Iii a moment it reappeared
and was visible for some fifteen mimtes, then faded away completely. It
made no noise, Sound like that of a plane heard before the object was seen,
Ho witnesses,

Agent's Hote: Mre. Henry is a colored woman about 50 yrs of age and is a
respected member of the community. ‘She appeured well educated
end sure of her statements during the interview.

eT OIA Ts A)

ae | vi k ae

CHECKeL S1 - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 19 Jan 4g Incidont # 19
Time 7:30 AM
Location Worth Jutland (Hjerrin, the Scaw and Hjerup)
Name of observor W48/S
) Taken from OMA R-34-4s (HAD 11796)
Occupation of obsorvor ¥/S as prepared by Lt Col Franklin E,
Tomlinson
Address of observer 48/8
Placo of observation North Jutland
Numbor of objects mx Three
Distanco of object from obsorvor n/S
Timo in sight 4§/S
Altitude M/S
Speed apparently rocket~like
Diroction of flight 2X East - West
Tactics "suddenly stopped, exploded and disappeared"
Sound B/S
Size y/S
Color n/s
Shapo ball = saucer
Odor dotoctod B/S
Apparont construction Yrocket~like objects
Exhaust trails axkkioadé tail of green light
Weather conditions y/S
Effect on clouds n/S

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappoaranco Mxploded and disappeared

Romarks; (over)

. ome , <a bsg a ee Me ¥ ]

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
nae Approx 1 Mar hg Incidont # 150
Time 0930 hours
Location Swedish Coast
Namo of observor H/S = a Norwegian pilot
Occupation of obsorvor ONL pilot
Address of obsorvor B/S Material taken from MA R-130~4g
Placo of obsorvetion Air = enroute from detnetgs fede
‘ Oslo, Norway
Number of objocts hE

Distance of objoct from obsorvor u/s

Timo in sight % seconds
Altitude 20,000 ft
Speoa B/S

Direction of flight Southeast - passing along Swedish Coast
and disappearing over Norway

Tactics M/S = flight path followed earth's surface

Sound B/S

Size u/s japenes

Color S/S boat SRRERESS a bluish-green flame

Sha po n/S

Odor dotectoad &/S

Apparent construction 4§/S

Exhaust trails Jone

Woathor conditions u/s

Effoct on clouds 4¥/S

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappoaranco Over Norway

Romarks: (over)

An ONL plane enronte from Aalberg, Denmark, to Oslo, Norway, sighted
projectile coging from the southeast, passing along the Swedish Coast
and disappearing over Norway. The missile was at 20,000 ft and disappeared
over the horizon in four seconds. It <*mitted a bluish-green flame but

left no trail in the sky. The projectile seemed to fmm follow the
earbh's surface.

a

Similar missiles have been observed at Rjuken, Norway & Finse,
Norway.
In this connection, it is of interest to know that hea avy water

is currently being produced in Rjuken,

Observers: A Norwegian pilot and his co-pilot.
The pilot served with the Royal Norwegian AF in
Great Britain.

29 July 1948
0955
Northeastern part of Indianapolis, Indiana (See attached

sketch of location)
biorvers Mr. James W, Toney & Mr, Robert Huggins

f observers ’ Both employees of W. 0. Jones Rug
Cleaners
bsurvor Toney: 235 So Bradley, Indianapolis
Huggins: 5040 Indianaole, Indianapolis
(See attached drawing of location)

observer W/S = not over a few mndred feet

30 feet - just above tree-tops
ad 2&5 to 30 MPH
etion of flirht Hewded south in bank to left
gliding with no apparent spinning action
no discernible sound
6 to 8 feet long by 1-1/2 to 2 feet wide (See attach dre.)
Aluminum and shiny in color

Shaped like a broad short propeller (See attached drwg.)

irent construction Zluninoun construction

ist trails None
‘thor eenditions GAVU = no clouds
Effcet on elouds No clouds
Skotehes or photorraphs e
Namer of disappearanco Went down in wooded area (seemingly)

Romarks: (over)

a

bs od

Object was shaped like a broad short propeller approximately 6 to 8 ft long,
each blade approximately 2 feet wide and approximately one foot thick with
cups on upper side of blades, It appecred alumimm and shiny in color.
Treveled approximately 25 to 30 MPH. It wes sighted just above the trees
at approximately a 30 ft altitude in bank to the left of epprox 20° and
seaneree in a slight descent, There was no discernible sound and no ex-

NOTE: Truck had just started across bridge (see drwe) when object wes
sighted directly ahead above the trees, Witnesses stopped on the
other side of the cantilever bridge but could not relocete object.

Search by Lt John E, Hoskins, Base P10, and Lt Russell J. Carey, Jr.
Base Intel Off. (33lst AFBU) Res Tng Stout Fld. did not produce any
result. However the area in which it was believed to have fallen is
densely wooded with many hilis and valleys, See diegram attached,

sl F

Lady wood School
(Approx 1/4 mi
/s/ Russell J, Carey Jr; f/ sighting
lst Lt, USAF ’
Intel Officer

“Tw aw 8
CEECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Date 31 July 4g
Time 0825
Location Indianapolis, Indiana (South-Central part)

Namo of observers Mr, & Mrs Vernon Swigert

Occupation of obsorvors TARMSEY an electrician and housewife

Address of observorg 2020 Boyd St., Indianapolis, Indiana
Placo of obsorvstion Js above —

Incident # 152

Numbor of objects 1

Distance of object from obsorver n/S
Timo in sight 10 seconds

Altitude 2,000 ft

Speod 1890 MPH

Direction of flight 90° ~ east

Tactics n/s

Sound None

Sizo RXR . eO ft in dia. and spprox 6 to 8 ft in height
in

, center - Ratio about 3:1
Color white with mo shine

Shapo like a cymbal
Odor dotected u/s
Apparent construction n/s

Exhaust trails Hone

Woather conditions Sky clear

Effoct on clouds B/S
Skotches or photographs 1
Manner of disappoaranco

Romarks: over)

Object first perceived in the west. The object wes shaped like a cymbal

with smooth surfaces and approximtely 20 feet in diameter at the base

and approximately 6 to 8 feet in height in the center, Ratio was sbout 3:1.
It appeared to be flat white én color with no shine. It traveled extremely
fast crossing the sky in approximately 10 seconds (a distance of about 5 miles)
on a 90° heading, It maintained a level course and shimmered in the sun
giving the appesrance of spinning. The altitude wes estimated at approx-
imately 2,000 ft. Object made no discernible sound and left no exhaust trail.
No openings were noted on the object.

NOTE: Mr. Swigert was standing by open bathroom mtmimxm window which
faces the west when he was attracted by the object in the sky.
Couldn't believe his eyes. He rushed into adjoining kitchen
and showed his wife the object thru the kitchen window facing sonth.
He tuumakt stated the object appezred lerge enough to carry one
person

Investigation conducted by Intel Officer, lst Lt Russell J. Carey,
Jr., on a call from Mr. Swigert. It wes noted that visibility was
good from both windows for such observation,

No other reports received on this object.

(Ration approx. 3:1)

/s/ Russell J. Carye Jr.,

RUSSELL J, CAREY JR.
lst Lt., USAF
Intel Officer

ery eas

J W 4 ‘ $ ed a2»

vu

CHECK=LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Dato xia 5 August 4s Incidont # 155
Time 0100 hours

Location Between Parrott, Ga, and Richland,Ge.

Namo of observor James Amaral, Former AF Pilot

Occupation of obsorvor 4/S = but formerly AF pilot
Address of observor n/s (Info forwarded f/Turner AF Base)

Placo of obsorvstion Between Parrott, Ga, & Richlani, Ga.
Numbor of objects 1
Distanco of object from obsorver 4/S
Timo in sight 5 to 10 seconds
Altitudo 20,000 to 35,000 ft
JGaUEE 3600 MPH (estimated)
Diroction of flight 250°
Tactics W/S
Sound MWone
Sizo B/S
Color Dlue-white streak of light
Shapo "stHeak"
Odor dotectod W8/S
Apparent construction "rocket-like"
Exhaust trails A trail of sparks several miles long followed it
Woathor conditions CAV
Effoct on clouds 4N/S
Skotches or photographs
Manner of disappearance

Romarks : (over)

2 mg 4S
1945 hours

Columbus, Ohio

evar Charles Saunders

Tl C t 0

-yor  265-1/2 South High St
vation Yard of 1337 Clifton Ave., Columbus, Ohio
Z

of ob; from obsorvor
n sicht 1®15 mimtes
1,500 to 2000 ft
15 MPH
Jirvetion of flirht Moving south from the north

Constant slow speed = Once it hesitated & thin trail of

emke issued from opposite direction of travel, Changed position assuming
« Sound None

different shapes
Judged to be about 20 to 30 ft in diameter
color N/S, Perimeter: constant grey-black. Center:

Changing. First: side-view!

then reverted to original form
ior dotectod n/s

transparent.
circular
Parallelogram. Second: gkxrgiuar

ADpArONt construction u/s
chaust trails

thin trail of smoke
mr condit CAVU

phs 4 sketches

S45 @ round object which appeared to be about 20 to
Dserved moving in southerly direction from the
Had constant grey-black perimeter with a
blue sky could be observed through this
ved at a constant, slow speed of about 15 MPH,
tated in its movements and a thin
direction of travel.
seen again during the 10 to 15 mimtes object
wes visible to the observer, The object changed position = but not direction
of travel - three times, When first seen, it evidently presented a side
view which wes a parallelogram in shape. (see). Slowly its position altered
end it became circular in form, only to revert after a tine to its original
form, The altitude was judged to be some 1500 to 2000 ft above ground.

Agent's Note: Saunders drew the following sketches

"as Sa

a
ee
Fourth Third First

The above drawings constitute four positions of one phase, The
object paseed thru three of these pheses during the 15 mimte period,

fe img hig
limo 7250 P.M,

ion

Columbus, Ohio

100 Of observor Jeymes Saunders, A. B., M, A,

Ccupation of obsorvor Housewife

rvition Columbus, Chio

Yr objocts 1

of obs

Distaneo of ob-

et

from obsorvor a/S
15 mimtes

Timo in sicht

Altitude EXE 1/2 mile high

slow ahd regular speed

me f flight ° from North to South to Southwest

/ Oblong to circular to oblong chanve in shape
sound Bone

Te

Tacties

Size ef @mall plane
Color u/s
oha

po Changing but circular for the mst pert
Oder doteeteod B/s

“pparont construction u/S

Exhaust troils

teil of anoke

Woathor conditions Uausual.ly favorable for observation, Light sufficient
without interference from sun's rays.
Effoct on clouds Cloudlese

ol

tches or photographs Hone
Manner of disappearance 3/S
26, Romarks;: (over)

D6

feces pis Ae

On 2 Ang 48, at 7:50 P. M. Mrs, Seunders observed an umsuel
object in the sky. Her attention was directed toward it because
eine Ga Mes eee tie a te She
called her kmsband, Charles Saunders, (Inc 154) to witness the
Phenomenon, The sky was cloudless and the light more than
sufficient, vithout interference from the rays of the sun which
were hidden by the buildings of the city.

Object first appesred oblong in shape and was traveling from

north to south at a slow, reguler speeds

XEXEREBE at a height of a half mile. During the 15 mimtes under

observation the object traveled approx 7-1/2 miles, Although

it did not change its course, it presented different ances

from time to time. From oblong to circmlar then to o

Object went thru this change three different times until observer

lost sight of it. However, for the most part it presented a cir~

cular appeserance, Outline very dark in contrast with the trane-
of the center. ed

observer aware of the center a vo a

momen: » observer no a smoke emanating from the

reer, after which the object contimed in a southerly direction,

This tail of smoke was observed tut once. The size appesred to be

that of a emall plane, It made no sound altho at one time observer

thought she detected one, At approx 8:00 P, M. observer lost sight

of the object just as it appeared to be changing direction from
South to Southwest,

31 July ug

4SO N, Monroe Ave.,
Columbus, Ohio
eryver Mrs. Edwerd G, Watson
‘ obsorvor Housewife
ror 480 N. Monroe Ave., Columbus, Ohio
Columbus, Ohio
6 or 7

from observer Very great distance away

N/S - very great
Hover ing
tion of flirht n/S
Hovering -hanging in the sky
sizo 6Of an ash tray
Color gold
Shapo starlike
Odor dotectea /S
apparont construction WN/S
Exhaust trails n/S
foather conditions CAYU - bright sunlight
Effect on clouds B/S

Skotches or photopraphs None

Manner of disappoesranca B/S

Romarks: (over)

mi PPPOE ated
CHECKLIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Dato 31 July 46 , Incidont # 156
Time 8:00 P. M,
Locetion Columbus, Ohio - Trement Rd near WSU radio tower

located near University Golf Course
Namo of observer Mrs, Martin Price & Mrs. Mary Rippetoe

Occupation of obsorvor cha Saar atimoheas aotaee of Mre, Price

Address of observor 2186 Lemont Ave., Columbus, Ohio
Placo of obsorvetion pemont Rd near WSU Radio Tower

Number of objocts 1

Distance of object from obsorver 250 feet
Timo in sight u/s

Altitude 250 feet

Speed very slow

Diroction of flight West to East

Tactics Did not change course or altitude
Sound No noise

Size of gasoline drum - Approx 5' x 6!
Color ea Black

Shapo Oblong

Odor dotectod aS

Apparent construction B/S

Exhoust trails Spouted black smoke from the top
Weather conditions Clear with no clouds

Effect on clouds No clouds

Sketches or photographs None

Manner of disappearanca 4/8

Romarks: (above)

s

evening, 4g, at approximately 8:00 P. M. ,
Tremont Road as observers approached the WSU
the University Golf Course, a large object resen-

seen floating in the sky. The weather ws
still daylight so object could be seen quite clearly.
about the size of a gasoline drum, It was
moving very slowly. It passed close to the

1/2 the height of the tower from the ground, As

ling east, it spouted black smoke from the

the left side there was a dull enclosed light

object did not change its course or altitude
with black smoke trailing behind. The

make any noise, There were no wings visible

openings of any kind could be seen,

near them with two occupants who claimed
witnessed anything like it before.

at
by
Ht

i

SERS ERM
Hie
[ne ir
eAERES
F fies
te

g

é

ge

p
se

5
Hy
E

31 July 48
8:00 P, M,
Columbus, Ohio
Robert C. Goshorn
vor Teletype Operator
ror State Highway Patrol Radio Station
bservtion Near Golf Driving Ragge, Columbus, Ohio
1

a of object from obsorvor Object was balloon which fell
to earth & was investigated by observer
Came to earth from around 100 ft (when first observed)
of flipht earthward
2 ft x 3-1/2 ft
olor White crepe paper
Shapo N/S - but said to be like old time "County Fair" balloon - round
Odor dotectoa 4/S

ARRGSRE construction crepe paper

vxnsust trails smoking = caused by Large ball of waste material
fcother conditions N/S = (clear = see Incident: 156)
ffect on elouds 4/S (no clouds)

Sketches or photographs None
“anner of disapposranco Fell to earth where it was retrieved,

Romarks;: (over)

Object was perceived floating in the sky coming from the west over Ohio
State Student Housing Project and was approximately 100 feet off the ground
when first observed. It got lower all the time and landed in a field nearby.
Three amall boys ran toward it and observer went over to investigate.
Saw paper bag affair approx 2 feet in diameter and 3-1/2 feet long made of
white crepe paper. (like old time "County-Fair" hot air balloons) It
was smoking when first observed and thie was caused bya large ball of waste
material woich was fastened underneath it. There were no marks or writing
on it smibcoouiooomtodooerettome

3

Note: See Incident 156 - in which time & direction tally.

FLYING OBJECTS

Incidont # 158

2300 P. M.
tion BSuGNETE Groveport, Ohio
Namo of observor Harold A, Yantis
Occupation of obsorvor Student, @
idress of obsorvor 2 West Hinman Ave,
Place of obsorvition 1] mile west of Groveport, Ohio
Nunber of objocts 1
Distance of objoct from obsorvor B/S
Tino in sight B/S
Altitudo %4@ very high
Speod = B/S
Diroction of flight im westerly direction against a light wind
Tucties N/S - just exhaust visible - smoke pattern dark & very leree
dispersed rapidly and appeared again as wide streak a mile or eo in length
Sourd Wo sound twisted from wide to narrow streak
and back,
Sizo  W/S - object not seen
Color B/S = object not seen
Shapo dJudt a streak observed
Odor dotectod N/S
Apparont construction Sf An exhanst trail (smoke)
Exhaust trails Appeared as black cloud with no definite shape but looked
like an anti-aircraft shell a few seconds after it exploded
Weathor eonditions ouiposositktexsiomis Few white clouds - but @eer
Effoet on clouds black cloud silhouetted among them that moved

Skotehes or photographs 3 figs.

Manner of d isappearanco n/S

Romarks: (over)

Observer noticed what appeared to be a small black cloud between

two white omes. Seemed peculiar because the weather was clear and
there were a few white clouds in the sky - but no other dark clouds
or formations of any kind, ‘The black cloud did not have any definite
shape but looked like an anti-aircraft shell a few seconds after it
explodes. Suidenly it stretched out into a wide streak with ealler
vertical streaks, then rapidly turned and twisted, moving into a
different direction and disappearing. In three or four seconds, the
smoke burst appeared again spontaneously, approximately 20° west

of the place where first noticed. ‘Smoke pattern dark, very large, and
dispersed rapidly, appearing again as a wide streak a mile or so in
length which appeared to twist from a wide to a narrow streak and then
baek again changing direction as it twisted. Moving in westerly
direction against light wind. Plainly visible altho far away and very high.
No sound heard. Seemed like a streak that would be made if a flying
wing with several engines Wife banking ani turning and leaving exhaust
trails.

Note: Yantis was in the wer and had seen a lot of anti-aircraft
shells burst and many vapor trails from planes but had never
observed anything like this. He states: "It was so spontaneous
like a rubber band which is round, then suddenly is stretched at
length and twisted, and then diseppears without a trace."

Agent's Note: Yantis drew the sketches below

ning ,
“\ Streak twisted and turned - suddenly dissppeared M
: “ See a
lll 29 eve PEr 84>. iti
ce 2S <- y 24 f ——
width same - length ~ E
estimated at 1 to 2 miles

30 July 194g gneisors 7 199
‘ 2015 hours

é Worthington, Ohio

<a f' observer John A, Felton

~ RaBy f obsurvor 5800 High St, Worthington, Ohio |
4 lunes of observetion Worthington, Ohio

~ Numbor of objcet 1

be Distanic of ob3 et from observer n/s

1G. Timo in sight 15 minutes
io. da very slow

O. Apparont construction n/S
l. Exhaust trails n/s
Wedthor conditions Clear with high scattered clouds, visibility good
23, Effoct on clouds M/S
Cie Skotehes or photographs None

256 Manner of disappearance n/S

L2O6 Romarks: (over)

4 OF

oo. CC ae

Object appeered cylindrical in shape with no apparent wings or tail
surfaces, No standard marker lights were displayed and there were no
engine noises, The object emitted a steady silver glow.

Altitude was gudged to be approximately 3000 ft and the object was moving
very slowly in a southwest course. It was in line of vision some 15 mimtes.
No other aircraft, military or civilian were in vicinity of Felton's

hearing or vision, The sky was clear with high scattered clouds and

the visibility was good.

NOTE: Felton questioned by Maj Campbell of the USAF, but nothing
further was gained by this interview with the exception
that his wife also saw the object,

ate. CT

CHECK=-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date & July 4g
Time 11:15 P, M,
Location Dravasburg, Pa.
Name of observer John Jannicky, Jr,
Occupation of obsorvor W8/S
Address of observor Box 227, Dravasburg, Pa.
Placo of observetion Dravasburg, Pa.
Numbor of objocts 1
Distanco of object from obsorvor n/S
Timo in sight 20 seconds +
Altitude B/S

Speod Hovering - then moving on at undetermined speed

Diroction of flight 4/S

Tactics moved across sky, stopping three times and resuming movement
Sound Wo noise

Sizo of a ster

Color same as a star

Shapo looked like a star

Odor dotectod ‘N/S

Apparent construction y/S

Exhaust trails n/S

Woathor conditions n/S

Effoct on clouds n/S

Skotches or photographs Vague sketch

Manner of disappearance n/S

Romarks: (over)

On 4 July 48 at approw. 11:15 P. M., OST, witness and his wife thought
they saw a star moving. There was a light in the sky the same color and
size of a star which was moving.

xuxthexutextiooxtituxubjertxtit, Then they thought it was a plane but

it made no noise, The object moved across the sky, then changed its course

a bit and went straight and stopped again for about 5 seconds, changed its
course a bit and went straight for awhile and stopped again this time for at
least 15 seconds, then it went across the eky a little ways and disappeared
completely. When the object stopped in the sky, it resembled a ster and only
by following its course could the difference be noticed.

NOTE: Witness states that he lives some 2-1/2 miles from the two woman
(McKeesport, Pa.) who reported seeing a big silver plate zooming
a overhead in the direction of Kennywood Parit. See Inc,
161.

Around July 8, 46
tion McKeesport, Pa,
rvor Mrs. Nell Veway
housewife

Mrs Veway:
Mrs Goltz:

rvor

rvor 8s

McKeesport,

& Mrs. Elizabeth Goltz

44 Grover Ave
3601 Grover Ave.) McKeesport, Pa.

ight N/S - toward Kennywood Park

noiseless

12 to 15 inches in dia,
silver

"plate"

dotectoad N/S

Apparent construction

Sxhaust trails

fcather conditions

Effect on clouds

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance

Romarks: (over )

disappe»red in cloud bank

disappe:red in bl»md bank

Witness saw what looked like a "big, silver plate" zooming noiselessly
overhead in the direction of Kennywood Park,

"Oh look, that's not a plane, screamed Mrs. Veway of 3404 Grover to
her neighbor, Mrs. Goltz, 3604 Grover, "it lookeglike one of those

flying saucers."
Mrs. Veway said the disc was about 12 to 15 inches in diameter. It

dissppesred in a cloud bank but reappeared on the far side and was seen
by Mrs. Goltz. They followed the direction of the disc until out of

sight.
NOTE: Taken from the Daily News "McKeesport, Pa. - July 8, 1948.

CHECK*LIST = UNIDENTIFIED FLYING ORJECTS
11 Aug 48 Incidont_# 162
Time 1200 and 1215 hours CST
Location Hamel, Minnesota
Name of observor Jerome Leuer (age 10 and Benne Lever (age 8)
Occupation of obsorvor children
.idress of observer R/R 1 Hamel, Minnesota
Placo of observution AS above —- back yard
Number of objects 1
Distance of object from obsorvor a4 matter of a few feet
Timo in sicht © N/S
Altitude Tested on ground -
Spcoa B/S
Diroction of flig¢ht After resting on ground it ascended to a height of
30 feet and shot off in a northeasterly direction
Tactics spam once, made whistling noise, shot straight up 20 ft, halted
and agein made whistling noise. Maneuvered around tree branches & tele
Sound whistling noise - like steam whistle wires,

Sizo 1 ft thick - 2 feet wide

Color dull gray

Shapo round

Odor dotoctod x/S

Apparent construction metallic
Exhaust trails n/S

Woather eonditions n/s

Effoct on clouds B/S

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappoeranee into northeast

Romarks: (over)

Informents stated that on 11 Ang 4S between 1200 and 1215 hours, CST,
Jerome and Benno were playing in the back yard and noticed en object
in descent approximately twelve feet from the ground which was descending
between the two of them, It settled to the ground gently - much es &
balloon, Upon hitting the ground the object spun once, made a sort of
whistling noise, described by the two boys as resembling a steam whistle,
and then shot straight up into the air approximtely 20 feet, halted
and again made a whistling noise. The object then shop upward to a height
of about 30 feet, and, in this ascent, maneuvered around tree branches
and tel me wires. Upon reaching a height of approximately 3) feet
objec in a northeasterly direction. The object approached
from the northwest.

The boys described the object as “approximately one foot thick, two feet
side and round," The object had no windows, wires, or any visible
eppurtenances, It was a dull gray in color and when it hit the ground,
it made a slight clanking noise, mch as metal hitting against metal.

Philip and Mre Lever stated the boys were visibly frightened when they
ren into the house and were afraid to tell what they had seen. Upon
close questioning, the boys related the above story to them.

Mr. Leuer advised that he then had notified Mr. E. R. Sheridan, Postmastefh
at Hamel, Minnesota (who subsequently notified the proper enthorities)

AGENTS NOTES: Agent noted that the spot where the alleged "flying seucer"
had landed was approximately 2 fect in diameter and appeared as though
some heavy object had landed there or had been set down - as the ground
was — end protruding rocks had been leveled. The spot was covered by
a weshtub.

E. R. id Postma » ad d that he had no
reason to doubt’ the story o “the boys or. oF Bt. ora ite bauer, and
for this reason had reported the matter to the Federel Burem of Investigation,
St. Paul, Minn.

we tner pall anor
we: Uner i

nt =
J il Weil

bluish luminescence like fluorescent 1

changed to orsnge color at dusk

round tending to spherical

—pep 5 & .

j

ay / a!

persture 70-75°

None

snapped off like a lamp when you throw switch

CHECK=LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Date 20th June Incidont #
Time 11P, M,
Location Uniontown, Pa.
Name of observor Mr Catherine McDonald
Occupation of lobsorvor §/S wktmum widow
Address of obsorvor 38 Kensington Circle, Uniontown
Placo of observation Uniontown, Pa, - Observer's front porch
Number of objocts three - one at a time
Distance of object from obsorvor n/S
Timo in sight 4/8
Altitude 5000 ft
Speed Very fast
Direction of flight ME
Tactics spinning vertically on edge
Sound
Size n/S
Color luminous
Shapo oval

Odor dotected None

Apparent construction B/S - transparent
Exhaust trails trail of Light about 1 yard long

Woathor conditions Stormy and cloudy

Effoct on clouds B/S - flew ac¥Sss sky beneath base of clouds -
lightning could be seen thru it. ra ’

Skotches } = ay x
or photographs yague sketch ee i

Manner of disappearance lost sight of - obstructed “ty-neighvoring Bonsee

Romarks: (over)

At approximately 11 P, M. on the; 69¢h of June Mrs dollar saw

a luminous oval=shagped object Sie dens a meat platter rolling
along on its edge. It appeared to be going very fast since it _
disappeared in about 5 to 10 seconds. It was without sound or odor
but seemed to have a tail which extended about a yard or so. Five
minutes later, witness saw a second object and after another five-
minute interval a thtrd object ws observed. They appeared in the
Southwest and flew to the Northeast. The weather was cloudy with .
lightning and rolling tinder. The objects flew over the Oakland St.
Area or just to the side of it (East of Oakland St.) They traveled
about 1,000 ft and then disappeared behind the houses across the
street from the witnesses,

Witnesses: Mrs. Catherine McDonald
Police Sergeant Shuh & daughter

CHECK*LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
pate 29 June ig Incident # 1646
Time 2300
Loestion Uniontown, Pa.
Namo of observor Mrs. Margarct Holler et al
Occupation of obsorver Housewife
address of obsorvor 100 Moore Ave., Uniontown, Pa.
Placo of obsorvetion 38 Kensington Circle, Uniontown
(home of Mrs, Catherine McDonald)
Numbor of objects 3 - one at a time
Distanco of object from observer u/s
Timo in sight 10 seconds
Altitude 4/5

Speod Very fast

Direction of flight from Southwest to Northeast

Tactics rolled along on its edge
Sound 23K No sound

Sizo "“platter"

Color luminous

Shapo oval

Odor dotectod MAR None

Apparent construction n/S - luminous

Exhoust trails a tail of about a yard in length

Woathor conditions Cloudy with lighthing and rolling thunder
Effect on clouds W/S

Sketches or photographs None

Mannor of disappoaranec View obstructed by neighboring houses

Romarks: (over)

Witness saw a luminous, oval-shaped object flying at an altitude of

approx 5,000 ft which was traveling beneath the base of some eimumiz clouds
from southwest to northeast across the sky. The weather was stormy and
cloudy and as a second object flew across the sky a flash of lightning
could be seen thru it. It seemed to be transparent. The objects(3)
traveled very fust and seemed to just disappear within 10 seconds. The objects
appeared at approximately five minute intervals. There was no odor

or sound £# from them. However, a trail of light about a yard long was
observed. The objects rolled vertically on their edges and appeared to be
spinning en end across the sky. Witnesses lost sight of the objects

as neighboring houses obstructed their view.

Witnesses: Mrs, Margaret Hollar
Police Sergeant Shuh & kam his daughter

29 June 4s
2300 - 11:00 P. Mw,
Uniontown, Pa.
Sgt Chas FE, Schuh & daughter
ever Uniontown Police Dept.
rvor 32 Lawton Ave., Uniontown

from front porch of 38 Kensington Circle, Union town,
1

ico of objoect from obs rver n/S

sicht 5 = 7 seconds
6,000 ft
100 MPE
of flirht NE - sighted in vest
straight & level
none
half of a large meat platter (1-1/2')
§/S luminous
semi-circular
ccna «oS
construction R/S
trails n/s
“hor conditions partly cloudy
n clouds n/S
photographs hone

e
appoes Trance u/s

On the night of 29th June at about xedb+ 11:00 P, M
an object that resembled a half of a large

xm the west end of the city at Oakland Ave
It seemed to be at a he
of about 8 or
the object

northeastly direction.

Witnesses: Mrs, McDonald
Mrs, Hollar
Sgt Scimh's daughter

es witness saw

meat platter which appeared over
& West Main St,, Uniontown, Pa.
ight of about 6,000 ft and sailed in a straight line
900 feet in about 5 to 7 seconds. Mo sound was heard and

emitted no rays. It was traveling in a

be 68

CHECK+LIST # UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
26 July 1948 Incidont # 165

Timo 2100 &
Location Chamblee, Ga.
Name of observor Doyle L, Avery et al
Occupation of obsorvor Observer, Atlanta Naval Air Base
Address of obscrvor Atlanta Naval Air Base, Chamblee, Ga,
Placo of obsorvetion Observation tower
Number of objects 1 blue white light
Distanco of object from obsorver n/S
Timo in sicht N/S
Altitudo 4W/S
Speod N/S - like shooting sta
Direction of flicht SE turning S and geining altitude
Tactics straight & level & gaining altitude
Souma None
sizo ¥/S
Color Dlue-white light
Shapo N/S = object not seen

Udor dotoetod N/s
20. Apparont construction like shooting star
91, exhnust trails N/S - possibly the blue white light wes the exhaust

 Mevia at 5,000 ft. Visibi es i2 to 15 “miles, Surf wind light & variebhe

23. Effoet on clouds wW/S e=5 MPH
2h. Skotches or photorfraphs None
Manner of disappearance y/S

Romarks: (over)

Quxisxiears, Doyle L. Avery Observer, Atlanta Naval Air Base, Chamblee,

Ga., while on duty at the observation tower on 26 July 48 about 2100

hours sighted a blue-white light traveling southeast from the northeast

It wes traveling very fast and mainteined a uniform altitude (undetermined)
and speed, It looked like a shooting star except for the fact that it
maintained the same altitude. While under observation it then appeered

to gain altitude and then turned sharply to the south, The weather was
clear and still, There was no sound. Shortly after sighting the light
several residents of the area called and reported seeing the same thing.
No flights left or arrived at the station after 1910 hours on 26 July "8.

Witnesses of this phenomena who were interviewed made statements

as follows: On 26 July 4é they were seated on the lawn of the Georgia
School of Technology Housing Project at Chamblee, Ga, About 2045 hours
Mrs. John Gall sighted a strange light and called it to the attention of
her companions. The light appeared about the size of a football and

was traveling southeast on a steady course. It was green and faded into a
silver-colored tail, The light appe:red sumeampd to lose altitude slowly
mach the same as a plane coming in for a landing. It appeared to fade
away in flight as if extinguished, No sound washer rd.

Witnesses: Mr. & Mre. Herold Shaw
Mr. Robert Sebring
Mre, Jeanne Hill
Mrs. Myrtle Renfroe
Mrs. John Gall

Incidont # 166
Time 20,000 hours or 8:00 P, M.
Location Los Angeles, Calif.
Namo of observor 8/Sgt Leroy H. Estes

Oceupation of obsorvor S/Sgt

Address of obsorvor 4% 1301 “. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles
Placo of observetion 1301 W. Olympic Blvd. Los Angeles, Calif.
Numbor of objocts 1

Distance of objoct from observor n/s

Timo in sight 4/S

Altitude estimated to be well over 20,000 ft.

Speod thought to be well over 700 MPH

Direction of flight Weee==0™liret

Tactics none - flew level course

Soumd No sound

Sizo Larger than B-29

Color silver

Shapo V=-2 rocket

Odor dotectod 48/S

Apparent construction rocket - like

Exhaust trails Ddlue exhemst trail

Woathor eonditions HS Ceze-

Effoct on clouds 4W/S

a or photographs None

Manner of disappearance y/S

Romarks: (over)

167

6 May 1948 Incidort #

0905 Gc?

n 19° 08' N= 164° 05' E between Kwajalein Island, Marshall
Islands and Hickam Field.,
of observor Capt Floyd Barnes

rvor Pilot USAF
sorvor Pacific Division, Milit Air Trans Service
’ obsorvetion Ahead & above his plane
‘ objects 1
of object from obsorvor 4 to 5 miles
19 in sight split second
Altitude 10,000 ft
Speed n/§
Direction of flight 43/5
exploded like a shall

ball

Odor dotectca 3/8
Apparent construction lfax fire

Exhoust trails None

JUS

5/10 cloud coverage

Woathor conditions

Effoet on clouds

Sketches or photographs none

exoloded

Manner of disappoaranca

eh i 7 ee ate

ae |

Romarks;:

4& large white ball of fire was observed some four to five miles

directly ehesad of and slightly above the airecreft. It was observed

for only a split second and was comparable to the explosion of a shell
There were no streamers or “tails" observed such as usually related

to a meteor or a distress signal, As the aircraft avproached the
epproximate position where the ball of fire wes observed a single white
light was seen on the water surface. However, this disappe:red within

a few seconds after sighting becsuse of the existing cloud coverage.
More lights were immediately observed on the water surfsce some 10 miles
north of the plane's course. It is the opinion of the witness (6apt
Barnes) that these were from a surface vessel. Some 10 minutes elapsed
after these lights were observed on the water surface when an aircraft
was sighted flying a reciprocal course (240°) at about 1000 ft below

the observers's aircraft and slightly to the right of the course,

Capt Barnes made mumerous attempts to contact this aircraft on Channel "B"
end "C", "VHF" but acknowledgment of his transmission was never teceived.

CHECKLIST -
20 July 194s incidort # 168
1330 local
Obrechstreet, Arnhem, The Hague
Name of observer A, D. Otter
Occupation of obsorvor OGbf. Investigator of Court of Damage
address of observor Arnheim, The Hague
Placa of obsorvation 52° 30' N, ye 30' E
Number of objects 1
Distance of object from observer N/S
Timo in sight 4N/S
Altitude very high
peod high speed - comparable to V-2
Direction of flight MS
Sound Same as V-2
Siz N/S
Color y/S
Shapo Aircraft with 2 decks and no wings
Odor dotectod N/S
Apparent construction n/S
Exhaust trails n/S
Woathor conditions visibility unlimited - scattered clouds
Effoct on clouds 4/S
Skotches or photographs None
Manner of disappoarance n/S
26. Romarks: Object appeared to be wingless aircraft with two

decks, It was treveling at very high altitude and wes seen four times
intermittently thru clowis. Visibility: unlimited,

CHECK=LIST - UN

Hake 29 Aug 4s Incident # 169

Time 0530

Location Maplewood, Ohio

Name of observer Mr. Faby Niswonger

Occupation of obsorvor farmer

Address of observor RD #1, Maplewood, Ohio.Phone: Jackson Central
8—-OF 42

Placo of obsorvetion Maplewood, Ohio

Numbor of objocts &

Distance of object from obsorvor n/s

Timo in sight 4/S

Altitudo n/S

Spcoa |= N/S

Diroction of flight N/S

taeties Arose from behind woods - seemed to unravel a silver

se that floated earthward

Sound

Sizo large

Color silver

Shapo sphere

Odor dotecto

Apparont construction n/S

Rxhaust trails - silver substance (7)

Weathor conditions n/S

Effoct on clouds N/S

Skotches or photographs None

Disintegrated in mid-air

Manner of disappearance

Romarks: (over)

Adapazari, Turkey

Name of observor N/S - taken from telecon
Item extracted from Turkish newspaper "Yeni Sabah", Istanbul, 5 May U8
Occupsetion of cbsorvor u/s

ss of observer See above

sbsorvution Village near Adapazari, Turkey

ject from observer N/S

"shining"

Color
Shape
Odor doteetod N/S
Apparent construction N/S
Exhaust trails N/S
Woathor conditions N/S
Effoct on clouds N/
Sketches or photographs None
Manner of disappoesranca exploded
inspected

25- Romarks: Investigation now under wey end the debris will be inexpesrea
by experts.

Moscow, USSR
Hameo of observor N/S - Americen Newspaper Reporter
Occupation of obscrvor Newspaper reporter
Address of obsorvor N/S

Pinso oF ebecrution Wbout 25 kilometers (19 to 20 miles) NW of
Moscow
Number of objocts 1

Distance of objoct from obsorvor 4¥/S

Timo in sight N/S

Altitudo Very high

Speed high but not excessive

Direction of flicht Southwest-Northeast direction
Tactics N/S

Souna No sound

Size n/S

Color 4N/S = shone brightly

Shapo long narrow

Odor dotectoa 4/8

Apparent construction Apparently metallic since it shone very brightly
Exhaust trails y/S

Weather conditions B/S - sunny

Effoct on clouds u/s

Skotches or photographs None

Manner of disappearance

Romarks; (over)

oe oe ee