DECLASSIFIED

Authority:

BUAER ROUTE SHEET wavacr-s014 (REV. 5-52) [nwo creos _ |

ON F “ DATE INIT RTG. DATE RTG,. DATE
5 WT. / N : Vives
DIVISI Reco. [ReLD. DIVISTON ae DIVISION "

CHIEF OF BUAER (AER) ASS'T CHIEF FOR

AIDE A ee | atta DEP. ASST. CHIEF a

a ie

ASST. RES. TRA. sri] | ARMAMENT (AR }
SMALL BUS. SP (SB)

DEPUTY 4 ASS'T CHIEF a
OF BUREAU (1) DESIGN ELEMENTS (DE)

EXECUTIVE OFFICE (12) i,

INDUSTRIAL PL.

ELECTRONICS

INSPECTION (IN)

ADM. SERVICES MAINTENANCE

le VALUAT JON

AIRCRAFT LOG

Ee . PROGRAM (EP }|

COWNSEL

IGUIDED MISSILES (GM)|
|e betceedme gis se ABS

FISCAL

AIRCRAFT

MIL. REQUIREM,

PERSONNEL ; POWER PLANT

PUBLICATIONS (PB)

|IRESEARCH

PLANS COORD. | SHIPS INSTALL. (S51) SHORE ESTAS. SE)

ASS'T CHIEF FOR
RES. & DEVEL. (2)

SUPPLY

DEP. ASST. CHIEF PATENT COUNSEL (PL)

EXECUTIVE ASST,

ASW COORD. ASST. USAF LIAISON

ROB-SPEC. ASST.

FOR ADDITIONAL Se

ADMINISTRATIVE ASST. =aa=- put eee 4 Ls

2

2
oT

ACTION DESIRED 7 1 ACTION DESIRED ACTION DESTRED

: LR TG]
i Information and return me Prepare reply for signature of:

Recomiendation and return

Confer with Return with a aaie req.

NO FURTPER APT WECESSARY J FILE NUMBERS
|_A/ A A oor (Signature) ;

. Red- rou ings shall be made and changed anly by Comm. & Files Br. AT

Indicate er of routing for both incoming and outgoing correspondente by consecutive numbers.

i gther routings shal) be na n Stack.

2

3. * — Indic activity preparing reply. (Place im "RTG & ACT,* Column, To left of column jf numeral already inserted, }

4h. O - indicates routing of pink copy after correspondence is mailed. (If numerical sequence desired indicate to left of column.)
5, All numerical routings aust be jnitialted orior to mailing,

6. indicate instructions by placing numerical routinas in appropriate box in lower right nand corner.

7. This form is UNCLASSIFIED when Dlank and unattached.

2
CONADENHAL- SECURITY INFORMATION

(Attach Correspondence Here) €CONABENHAL

COMMENTS

1. In order that persons making comments may be readily identified, comments shal! be numbered, dated, legibly signed with the
Last Name and Initials, Rank if any, Section, and telephone extension.

By order of the Chief of the Bureau, material attached to this route sheet shall not be removed. (See AD 3-1)

3. Extra copies may be removed, but the Record Copy (identified by the control number) must remain attached at all times.

WAVAER 24124 (REV. 1-52) (BACK) (Do not write below thts Line)

ATTACH ADDITIONAL COMMENTS ON LETTER SIZE (8x104) SHEETS OWLY.
NUMBER ALL COMMENTS IN DATE ORDER.

SECURITY INFORMATION

U. S. NAVAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER
U. S. NAVAL RECEIVING STATION

Code 01/HWW/2bh MAY 4 1953
yi2

Serial:

SECURITY INFORMATION

From: Officer in Charge
To: Director of Naval Intelligence (OP-322H4D)

Subj: Interpretation of Movies of Unidentified Objects;
progress report on e

Ref: (a) Conf ltr DNI op322y5/rtm, dtd 27 Oct 1952 with
enclosures thereto
Conf memo, Chief, Topical Division, USAF, AFOIN
2A2, dtd 24 Nov 1952 with enclosures thereto
PIC Conf ltr 01/HWW/gel, ser 0263 dtd 5 Dec 1952
Rest memo, Chief, Topical Division, USAF, AFOIN
2a2, ata 16 Feb 1953

d
Ps

Enel: Charts 2-13

1. Reference (a) is a request from U. S. Air Force for the
interpretation of movies of unidentified objects taken in Utah,

2 July 1952. Included among the enclosures are approximately 30 feet
of processed, 16mm color motion picture film and a list of questions
for guidance in determining the type of analysis desired. Reference
(b) requested interpretation of additional movies taken in Montana,
1950. This report supercedes reference (c) and presents the test
procedures and methods designed to answer the questions contained in
enclosure 7 of reference (a). The results and analysis were performed
by the Photogrammetry Division, Evaluation Department of this Center
and do not necessarily represent the official attitude of the Depart-
ment of the Navy or this Center.

.

g ik

s/2b Ain

NARA, Date © £2

MVD 67705

DECLASSIFIED
2/7

2. Tests and Procedure.
a. Plots.

The film exposed in Utah is in very poor condition; dry,
brittle, and with a tendency to break. After initial viewing,
duplication of the film was performed in order to | \preserve the film.
In the duplication process some color correction was made to permit
better viewing of the objects. To prepare plots of the objects, a
stop frame projector was rigidly mounted at a fixed distance from a
finely-ground glass screen. The magnification was 22 times giving
a format size of 14.2" wide. This proved very satisfactory and
provided a shadow free image upon which overlay plots could be made.

ee

SECURITY INFORMATION aaaRY Ty y FORM ATION

Code 01/HWW/Jbdh
Ji2

Serial:
oo See
SECURITY INFORMATION

Subj: Interpretation of Movies of Unidentified Objects; progress
report on

A preliminary detailed stud, of the Utah film was made and it was
decided that:

&. Brightly colored spots of red and green lasting only one or
two frames were not to be considered.

b. Water spots could be detected easily and eliminated from the
study.

ce. The color of the objects was fairly constant as blue-white.

d. Size and luminosity of an object varied through-out the film.

For convenience in interpretation, the film was divided into three
parts, each part being considered an entity. Part I consisted of the
footage taken at f8; Part II, the footage taken at f16 with a panning
motion; and Part III, the footage taken at f16 during which the camera
was held steady. Three definite groups of lights were observed through-
out the film and plots were recorded as follows:

TABLE I

PLOTS OF POSITIONS

Parts Control Chart

SSE TET Holding to lower group Not enclosed

boa ie & Holding to one object 2 and 3
and azimuth of another

Arbitrary 1/2 inch
correction per frame
for panning

Holding to frame outline

One image held to base
line. Every tenth frame
to show changes within
apparent formations

Montana

All Terrestial Objects

“CONF IpENSAL ‘

* oe

Serial:

“Code 01/HWW/lbh
Ji2

CONF DSHS
SECURITY INFORMATION

Subj: Interpretation of Movies of Unidentified Objects;
progress report on

b. Densitometric tests:

Densitometric data were obtained with a Densichron, Model 2150
manufactured b, the Welch Scientific Company. The Densichron has a scale
range of 0-3. The procedure was to project each frame at approximately
22 times magnifidation onto a finely-grained-glass screen. The back-
ground (sky) was then measured at several places and the density set to
3.0 (variations in background densities were in the order of 0.02 and
were regarded as uniform). A set of three readings were made of each
of seven objects in Part I, and of the single object in Part III of
the Utah Film. Readings were made of the entire Montana film.

Enclosure (Sa and 8b) are graphs of the density readings
obtained of the two lower groups of objects in frames 1-129 of the
Utah film. Enclosure (9) is a density graph of the single object (94
frames) in Part III. Enclosure (10) is a graph where six successive
Densichron readings were averaged and advanced one reading each deter-
minant.

Of the Montana film, densities were plotted as above and are
enclosures (11) and (12).

The results of the density readings may be questioned in that
these objects varied in size so that at the minimum sizes the densichron
probe was measuring the entire object, and at the maximum size the probe
was measuring only a portion of the objects. Because of this situation
only the largest readings obtained b.~ scanning the objects were used.

It is understood that normal procedure would be to read the entire object.
This was impossible with the equipment on hand.

In addition the film, with which this investigation was conducted,
is a duplicate of a copy. This raises the question as to whether the
central portion of the objects were burnt out during the duplication
processing. Density readings were made to compare the clear areas and
the objects. It was found. that the minimum difference is 0.4. This
indicates that relative luminosity may still be obtained with the pro-
cedure used. Concurrent with the density readings, relative sizes of
the objects were noted in order to correlate distance and luminosity.
Enclosure (13) is a plot of the same object wherein the relationship of
distance and luminosity can be detected in Utah film.

3. Answers to Questions. 4

Answers keyed to the questions contained in enclosure (7) of
reference (a) are hereby presented. They supercede those contained in
reference (c) and present the final analysis.as requested.

“Con parte
SECURITY INFORMATION

“Code O1/HWW/ibh
Ji2

Serial:

CONFIDENTIAL
SECURITY INFORMATION

Subj: Interpretation of Movies of. Unidentified Objects;
progress report on

1. Analysis of the graph correlating luminosity and size
indicate that as the luminosit, of the objects increase, the size
is larger also. This could be the effect of viewing directly, a
reflecting surface. This is considered not probable because of
the length of time they were viewed continuously on the film, approxi-
mately 90 seconds, and because of the angle through which they were
photographed, approximately 60 degrees.

It is felt that if these images are reflective surfaces,
blinking would occur during a period of 90 seconds while passing
through an angle of 60 degrees when photographed at the rate of
16 frames per second. This premise would permit highly reflective
balloons or spheroids to be a possibility. However, the velocity and
acceleration computations (sub paragraph ©) rule this possibility out.
It appears, therefore, that if these objects are a reflecting surface,
they are of a design, speed, and power not commonly known. The velocity
and acceleration attributed to the objects may be caused by light
reflected off a highly reflective surface onto an atomospheric screen
where a slight angular turn of the reflective surface would appear as
high acceleration. This possibilit, is considered not probable because
of the sun angle and atmospheric condition reported at the time of
photography and because of the variations in luminosity which, under
the above conditions would remain constant.

It is the majority opinion of the group conducting this analysis
that these images are light sources. This will explain the non-blinking
and variations in luminosity - but not the velocity or acceleration
factors. In either case, light source or reflective surface, it
appears as if the objects are of a nature which we are not able to
identify in terms of natural phenomena or commonly known man-made objects.

2s ere is no indication of what kind of objects could have
caused the images except that they must be of a construction, design,
and material not commonly known. This is indicated by the computed
acceleration rate and elocity (answer 3). For the same reasons, birds,
aircraft and balloons are ruleg out.

3. An analysis of the charts relative to movement indicate that
there were group and individual movement. Within a group it appears
as if the individual objects were moving counter-clock-wise along an
elliptical or similar track. Thus when two objects crossed the camera
line of sight they will appear to fuse into one. As they continued
along their paths it will appear as if one object became two. This
occured at reglar intervals at approximately every 25th frame as
plotted in charts 5a and 5b.

Con attra
SECURITY INFORMATION

uu
IX FORMATION

‘Code 01/HWW/1bh

Ji2

Serial:

Se cae ed
SECURITY INFORMATION

Subj: Interpretation of Movies of Unidentified Objects;
progress report on

4. All objects appear to have the same chsracteristics in
regards to shape, color, size and relative motion.

5. The shape of the objects appears to be oblate or disk
shaped, color; blue-white, and maximum and minimum size; 95 and 16
feet. The size is based on the assumption that the objects are five
miles from the observer.

6. Fade in and fade out of the objects were analyzed as in
3 above. In this case the group movement was such that the distance
between the objects and camera was increased so that the objects
could not be recorded on the film thereby causing the apparent fade-
out. Fade-in as attributed to a shortening of the distance from the
fade-out area to the camera station.

f- Plots of the groups indicate that the objects move counter-
clock-wise relative to the axis of flight path. However, nothing has
been detected which indicates motion of the individual objects about
their own axis although this motion appears to be likely.

8. In determining the velocity of the objects three assumptions
were made: ;

a. The camera was held steady during Part III of the film.

b. The objects were moving perpendicular to the optical

axis, and
ec. The objects were five miles from the camera.

It is obvious that (b) is a fallacy; however, this assumption
will give the minimum velocity and the actual velocity is greater than
computed. The assumption that the objects are five miles from the
camera is an arbitrary one. However, based on the emulsion speed and
focal length, an object 50 feet in diameter and five miles from the
camera will be recorded on the film with sufficient resolution to
identify major details of the object. It is felt that if these objects
were closer than five miles at the time of recording, details would
appear on the filn.

Velocity is computed to be 3750 mph for a shift of 1 mm per frame
if the object is five miles from the observer. From 55 measurements
taken from Part III of the Utah film, the maximm and minimum velocities

-CORPEDERT TAD

SECURITY INFORMATION A

SECURITY INFORMATION

u

Code 01/HWW/1bh
ji2

Serial:

a = oe
SECURITY INFORMATION

Subj: Interpretation of Movies of Unidentified Objects;
progress report on

were 2457 and 375 mph respectively. These figures differ from those
given in reference (c) and were computed from measurements obtained
under more controlled conditions. Acceleration was determined from the
formula

= Vf - VO
T

Acceleration

where:

final velocity

VO = initial velocity

T = time = 1/16 second

Since "g" is equal to 32.17 ft/sec it was computed that:

2/2 mph/sec j2¢

Maximum acceleration
Minimum acceleration
Maximum deceleration
Minimum deceleration

Velocit. and acceleration determinations were also made from
the Montana film. In this case, terrestial objects appeared in the
film and were held to as control. Subsequently, the velocity and
acceleration determinations are considered to be more reliable. On the
assumption of (b) and (c) above the maximum and minimum velocities of
the left object are 13/4 and 361 mph respectfull:;. For the right object
they are 1117 and 159 mph. Accelerations were computed as:

Left Object Right Object

Minimum acceleration mph/sec fe) Og On Og
Maximum deceleration mph/sec 13,154 = GOl ¢ 14288 = 651g
Minimum deceleration mph/sec Oo Og Os Og

The above determinations were made from a total of 322 measure-
ments. It was noted that the acceleration and determinations were in
multiples of 12.5 approximately. This may be of significance although
no study has been conducted to determine this.

9. Velocity and acceleration were treated in sub-paragraph 8
above. Paragraph 2a indicates the controls used during this investi-
gation.

SCORPIDEND EAL
SECURITY INFORMATION : HUN

AU b 1 aeraah + hd 0

- Code 01/Hww/lbh
yi2

Serial:

0108
CONFIDENTIAL
SECURITY INFORMATION

Subj: Interpretation of Movies of Unidentified Objects;
progress report on

10. a. There is no recurring pattern in the relative position
of the objects in formation. It appears however, as if the shift
in relative positions were regular and that the original formation
would be recovered if the continuing action has been recorded.

b. No. However, the same formation is maintained with
objects changing positions.

c. No detection of relative positions being maintained
coincidental with movement about their axis.

d. Wo detection of undulating motion of objects in phase
either in formation or tumbling motion.

e. There is evidence of abrupt changes in direction of
flight path through fairly large angles.

f. Certain objects do appear to remain motionless while
other move about.

g@- Certain objects disappear while still well within the
field of view. This is discussed in sub-paragraph 6 above.

4k. Discussion.

During the study and investigation of the unidentified objects,
the preliminary data uncovered were revealed to experts (with proper
security clearance) in the fields of astronomy and physics. Although
they presented certain natural phenomena theories to explain the
cause of the objects under certain conditions they were not able to
do so under the conditions during which the photography was taken,
nor were they able to recognize these objects as man-made.

As to the results of the investigations being reported, no
attempt was made tocorroborate the opinions presented. Because of
the lack of proper equipment, money and personnel, the investigation
was limited. There are obvious tests which can be conducted to prove
or disprove some of the findings presented. It is suggested that these
be undertaken.

5. Reference (d) requests spectrophotometric analysis of the Utah
film be made. Preliminary plan of test is underway.

Copy to:

CNO (0P553
BuAer (PH) ——-