LOAN DOCUMENT

T/S CONTROL KO. 2-7341
OFFICE TO WHICH LOANED AFOIN-2A _

DATE DUE IN AFOIN-C/DD 8 July 1952 __

PLEASE RETURN THIS DOCUMENT ON DATE SPECIFIED ABOVE TO AFOIN-C/DD, ROOM

When the atteched document is withdrawn
the classification of this sheet will be
changed to UNCLASSIFIED in accordance
with PAR 25c, AFR 205-1.

es

Alr Intelligence Report No. 100-203-79

ANALYSIS OF FLYING OBJECT INCIDENTS IN THE U. S.

Air Intelligence Division Study No. 203
10 December 1048.

Directorate of Intelligence and Office of Naval Intelligence

DISTRIBUTION “‘C”

WARNING: This document contains information affecting the national defense of the United States
Within the meaning of the Espionage Act, 50 U.S.C., 81 and 32, as amended. [ts transmission or
ihe revelation of ils contents in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
Reproduction of the intelligence in this publication, under the provisions of Army Regulation
360-6, is authorized for United States military agencies provided the source is indicated.

Directorate of Intelligence

Office of Naval Intelligence
Headquarters United States Air Force

Navy Department

Washington, D. C.

ANALYSIS OF FLYING OBJECT INCIDENTS IN THE U. 8.

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
APPENDIX “A” - ANALYSIS OF FLYING OBJECT INCIDENTS IN THE U_ 8.

Introduction

Some Aspects Regarding Flying Object Incidents

Possible Origin of Unusual Flying Objects

Possible Reasons or Tactics for the Use of Soviet
Unconventional Aircraft Over the U. &.

Conclusion

APPENDIX “2 - REPORTED SIGHTINGS OF FLYING OBJECTS AS OF
USL

APPENDIX “C’”’ - SELECTED REPORTS OF FLYING OBJECT INCIDENTS
APPENDIX “D”’ - FLYING WING TYPE AIRCRAFT
Germany

Great Britain
United States

ANALYSIS OF FLYING OBJECT INCIDENTS IN THE U. S.

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

PROBLEM

1, TO EXAMINE pattern of tactics of ‘‘Flying Saucers’’ (hereinafter referred to as flying objects)
and to develop conclusions as to the possibility of existence.

FACTS AND DISCUSSION

2. A DETAILED discussion of information bearing on the problem as set forth above is attached
as Appendix ‘‘A’’. The main points established therein are summarized below.

3. THE FREQUENCY of reported incidents, the similarity in many of the characteristics attributed
to the observed objects and the quality of observers considered as a whole, support the contention
that Some type of flying object has been observed, Approximately 210 incidents have been reported.
Among the observers reporting on such incidents are trained and experienced U.S. Weather Bureau
personnel, USAF rated officers, experienced civilian pilots, technicians associated wi various re-
search projects and technicians employed by commercial airlines.

4, THE POSSIBILITY that reported observations of fying objects over the U.S. were influenced by
previous sightings of unidentified phenomena in Europe, particularly over Scandinavia in 1946, and
that the observers reporting such incidents may have been interested in obtaining personal publicity
‘have been considered as possible explanations. However, these possibilities seem to be improbable
when certain selected reports such as the one from U.S. Weather Bureau at Richmond are examined.
During observations of weather balloons at the Richmond Bureau, one well trained observer has
Sighted strange metallic disks on three occasions and another observer has sighted a similar object
on one occasion. The last observation of unidentified objects was in April, 1947. On all four occa-
sions the weather balloon and the unidentified objects were in view through the theodollte. ‘These
observations at the Richmond Bureau occurred several months before publicity on the flying saucers
appeared in a U.S. newspaper.

5. DESCRIPTIONS OF the flying objects fall into three configuration categories: () diel shaped
(2) rough cigar-shaped (8) balls of fire. Varying conditions of visibility and differences in angles
at which the objects may have been viewed introduces a possibility that a single type object may
have been observed rather than three different types. his possibility is further substantiated by
the fact that in the areas where such objects have been observed the ratio of the three general
configurations is approximately the same.

6. THEREFORE, IT appears that some object has been seen; however, the identification of that
object cannot be readily accomplished on the basis of information reported on each incident. [It

is possible that the object, or objects, may have been domestically launched devices such as weather
balloons, rockets, experimental flying wing aircraft, or celestial phenomena. [t is necessary to
obtain information on such domestic activity to confirm or deny this possibility. Depending upon
the degree with which this may on accomplished, foreign devices must then be — as a
possibility.

%. THE PATTERN of sightings is definable. Sightings have been most intense throughout the states
bordering the Allantic and Pacific coast lines, and the central states of Ohio and Kentucky. A map
showing location of sightings is attached as Appendix ‘'B’’

8. THE ORIGIN of the devices is not ascertainable. There are two reasonable possibilities:

(1) The objects are domestic devices, and if so, their identification or origin can be established
by a survey of all launchings of airborne objects. Domestic flying wing type aircraft observed
in various aspects of flight might be responsible for some of the reported flying objects, particu-
larly those described as disks and rough cigar shapes. (See Appendices ‘'C’’ and ‘‘D’’.) Among
those which have been operational in recent years are the XF5U-1 (‘Flying Flapjack’’) developed
by Chance-Vaught, the Northrup B-35, and the turbo-jet powered Northrup YB-49. The present
existence of any privately developed flying-wing type aircraft has not been determined but one
such aircraft, the Arup tailless monoplane, was operational at South Bend, Indiana, prior to 1935.
(2) Objects are foreign, and if so, it would seem most logical to consider that they are from a
soviet source. The Soviets possess information on a number of German flying-wing type aircrait
such as the Gotha PG6OA, Junkers EF 130 long-range, high-speed jet bomber and the Horten 22v
twin-jet fighter, which particularly resembles some of the description of unidentified flying objects
(See Appendix ‘*D’’). As early as 1924 Tscheranowsky developed a ‘‘Parabola”’ aircraft, an all
Wing design, which was the outcome of considerable Soviet experimentation with gliders o the
same general form. Soviet aircraft based on such designs might have speeds approaching trans-
sonic speeds attributed to some flying objects or greater over-all performance assuming the
successful development of some unusual propulsion device such as atomic energy engine.

9, THAT THE Soviets have a current interest in flying-wing type aircraft is suggested by their
utilization of Dr. Guenther Bock who, at the end of World War II, was in charge of the flying-
wing program in Germany (See Appendix ‘‘A’’, paragraph 3, page 4). Achievements satisfactory
to the U.S.8.R. are indirectly indicated by the personal recognition he is reported to be receiving
in the U.S.S.R. Recently it has been reported that the U.S.S.R. is planning to build a fleet of
1,800 Horten flying-wing aircraft. Information of low evaluation has been received stating that a
regiment of jet night fighters, Model Horten XIII, is at Kuzgmikha, an air base two miles south-
west of Irkutsk. Kuzmikha is identified as one of a number of airfields for the protection of an
atomic energy plant at Irkutsk. The Horten XIII as developed by Germany was a glider.

10. ASSUMING THAT the objects might eventually be identified as foreign or foreign-sponsored

devices, the possible reason for their appearance over the U.S. requires consideration. cio
possible explanations appear noteworthy, viz:

a. To negate U.S. confidence in the atom bomb as the most advanced and decisive weapon
in warfare.

b. To perform photographic reconnaissance missions.
ce. To test U. &. air defenses.

gd. [0 conduct familiarization flights over U.S, territory.

CONCLUSIONS

11, SINCE the Air Force is responsible for control of the air in the defense of the U.S., it is
imperative that all other agencies cooperate in confirming or denying the possibility that these
objects have a domestic origin. Otherwise, if it is firmly indicated that there is no domestic
explanation, the objects are a threat and warrant more active efforts of identification and inter-
ception,

12. IT MUST be accepted that some type of flying objects have been observed, although their
identification and origin are not discernable. In the interest of national defense it would be
unwise to overlook the possibility that some of these objects may be of foreign origin.

APPENDIX ‘A’

ANALYSIS OF FLYING OBJECT INCIDENTS IN THE U. &.

AND HYPOTHETICAL TACTICS EMPLOYED

1. INTRODUCTION. To formulate the possible tactics of flying objects reported over the U. &.
assumes from the outset that firm conclusions have been reached on both the existence and origin
of the reported flying objects. ‘The current status of information on such incidents and over-all
analysis does not allow substantiation for such conclusions. However, the lack of such firm con-
clusions points to the necessity for an immediate and sound statistical analysis of every aspect of
the situation and does not preclude a concurrent examination of the reported incidents to develop
explanations of their possible tactics. The latter will be useful at some future date should the
existence and origin of the flying objects be definitely established. Therefore, the following analy-
Sis of available information is advanced in order to present evidence on the actual existence of
some type flying object and to relate same to tactical purposes for which the objects are possibly
designed, The following discussion must be considered a Ses analysis, pending a further
detailed analysis of all aspects of the problem.

2. SOME ASPECTS REGARDING FLYING OBJECT INCIDENTS. A cursory examination of evidence
on reported incidents has been made and it 1s poSsSible to cite certain generalities which it ars
tege be borne out when detailed analyses have been completed.

Among the incidents reported there are many statements by reliable and experienced persons
which tend to confirm that flying objects have been seen. The description of such objects seems
to fall roughly into three categories: (1) Silver disks or balls, approximating a Horten wing type
aircraft: (2) Balls of fire of various colors and intensities: (8) Cigar or pencil-shaped objects

similar in appearance to V-2 type rockets in horizontal flight. The numbers of configurations

might be further reduced with the following considerations in mind: Silver disks or balls have,

for the greater part, been observed in daylight and a number under clear weather conditions with

visibility unlimited. In most instances, balls of fire have been observed at night. Cigar, or
pencil-shaped objects have been sighted in fewer numbers but with about equal distribution in
daylight and at night. A few accounts tell of the disks having a rough cigar-shape when viewed
while maneuvering. Some of the disks are described as having luminosity in daylight. It there-
fore is possible that a single type of object may be involved in all sightings, and differences in
description may result from viewing the objects at various angles and under a conditions:
of visibility.

The above tends to indicate that some type object has been seen and the possibility exists
that the object or objects seen are conventional domestic devices, such as weather balloons, test
aoe or jet-equipped oS with pee or ne wing configurations.

‘The possibility exists that ~ reporting of fyine objects may have been influenced by earlier
reports on similar incidents in Scandinavia and Central Europe. The publication in newspaper of
details on such incidents, both foreign and domestic, may have induced some of the description
provided in reported domestic incidents. However, one of the earliest reported sightings in the
U.S. was the one observed by U.S. Weather Bureau personnel in April 1947, at Richmond, Virginia,
and on the basis of this one report it appears that the disks are not balloons. [t would seem that
this sighting was not influenced by the reports of foreign incidents, the newspaper accounts of
domestic incidents, nor by misidentification of a conventional object.

Although reported domestic incidents are widely scattered throughout the U.S., frequency of
sighting and number of observers per sighting assumes a definable pattern. There is a large con-
eentration of Sightings along the Eastern seaboard; another large concentration throughout the
Western Coast states, and a few sightings in the Middle West. Distribution of incidents by con-_
figuration of object and description of maneuverability is approximately equal in each of these
areas and this is believed to further substantiate the possibility that one type of object might have
been observed in different ss of flight.

on sightings are induced by rumor, it seems ee that more ee —— not been rede
Trom the areas with high concentration of population. Reports from such areas would also have
greater facility in channeling either to newspaper or official reporting agencies. For the most part,

sightings have been made in fairly open country where there are few restrictions to agen i ans

may indicate that obstructed vision has reduced sightings in built-up areas.

It therefore seems that some type of. flying object has been observed; the identification of
its origin requires the competion of other analyses.

3. ‘POSSIBLE ORIGIN OF UNUSUAL FLYING OB: cis Provided. upon ae conoid. of a aiyocs,

‘it is d he re i flying objects over the U.S. are of foreign origin,
the objects could from a logical viewpoint, be. considered Soviet. It is evident from the perform-
ance Characteristics attributed to the unidentified objects at this time that if they are foreign, they

_ involve efficiencies of performance which have not béen realized in any operational airborne device
in this country. It would, therefore, be a mistake to analyze the technical aspects of the situation
within the limits of our own knowledge of practical developments. It is more desirable to consider |
then the outer limits of possible Soviet iN uc | and oo in oe - — some
idea of the tactics which might be involved.

_ First of all, the scientific objectives of the U.S.S.R. have been stated many. times and indicated
in many forms. The most clearcut statement of this objective is probably the one contained in the
preamble to the Fourth Five-year Plan (1946-1950) which states that the objective of Soviet science

is to overtake and surpass the scientific and technical developments of the capitalist nations. It.
apparently would be an impossible task for the Soviet Union to accomplish such an objective by pro-

_ ceeding step-by-step | along the same lines of development already achieved in the capitalist nations. |
This would mean that it would be necessary to rapidly proceed through each phase of aeronautical
_development that has already been accomplished in this country, and this probably would never have
any prospects of accelerating Soviet development beyond any point reached by the U.S. The obvious |

answer to accomp — aaa of not only overtaking, but surpassing the capitalist countries —_—=T

would be a scient: ‘ This possibility is not so remote when examined on the basis of -

our knowledge of the oe situation in the U.S.S.R. Provided Soviet emphasis was given to the
most promising an vanced ideas acquired from Germany in 1945 and the work aided by German —
scientists, the possibility o: ing up and possibly surpassing other nations in technical develop-
ments becomes more realist It becomes even more realistic if the Soviets have shown a tendency
to concentrate on certain res which have still not received a maximum of poe bos our ~~
_OWn programs. | isk _

8.8.R. has since 1945 enlisted the services of Dr. Guenther Bock, a a
velopment of low aspect ratio (flying wing) type aircraft in Germany, _
Dr. Bock is believed to be the top German scientist in charge at TSAGI and TSIAM which are

‘Air Materiel Command’? type organizations in the U.S.S.R. Further, it is believed that Dr. Bock _—-T

has made available all German plans for flying wing type aircraft to the Soviets. Among the de-
signs considered by the ¢ § and possibly exploited by the U.S.S.R., are jet-propelled, flying _
wine type aircraft wh 2a on would be similar to descriptions of certain objects reported
2s sd Speeds of such aircraft are within range of the lower limits

of soend eiribged ‘to pee objects over the U.S. [It is not impossible that emphasis on euroaseing
foreign developments has led to unusual progress in fuels and propulsion by the U.S.S.R. In con- |
nection with eas advancements in the field of fuels and propulsion, it should be observed that

the Russian oil situation (regardless of estimated cil reserves) is quite different from that in the
U.S. For example, U.S. ol] industry is prepared to turn out tremendous quantities of highly frac-
tionated petroleum products, while the U.S.S.R. cannot reasonably approach such capabilities. This
consideration dictates different solutions on fuels for propulsion in the two countries and in turn,
dictates the direction taken in development of jet motors or the use of other propulsive devices.
We must therefore, arrive at the conclusion thal any Soviet device which may have made its
appearance over the U.S. as described, would possess unusual performance characteristics which,

in all probability, would include unusual range. The eee that they could have been launched
at fairly close range should not be discarded.

4, POSSIBLE REASONS OR TACTICS FOR THE USE OF SOVIET UNCONVENTIONAL AIRCRAFT
OVE HE U.S. Predicated on all the foregoing assumptions, Soviet unconventional aircral =~
have Seon flown over the U.S. for one, all, or a combination of the following reasons:

a. TO NEGATE U. 8. CONFIDENCE IN ATOM BOMB AS THE MOST ADVANCED AND DECISIVE :

WEAPON. If the objects have been used In a propaganda sense, it would be reasonable to assume

that the Soviets would choose first to frighten pro-American nations in Europe with the appearance _
of a radically new weapon to counteract the ability of the U.S. to obtain full propaganda effective-
ness with the atom bomb. It will be remembered that strange objects first appeared over the
Scandinavian countries in 1946. The objects observed there had unusual range and unusual per-
formance characteristics. As this demonstration over the Scandinavian countries occurred the ©
U.S. was making a vigorous campaign for the economic and political alignment of these nations
with other pro-American Western European nations. When these incidents subsided, strange flying
objects began to be observed at an increasing rate over the U.S. The conclusion on this point is
that flying objects may have been used to frighten both European nations and the U.S. by the appear-
ance of a new device, and that failure to identify such a Soviet object would give them invaluable
indication that U.S. development is far behind that of the Soviets. Except for this indication, it is
believed that the use of the objects to promote fear has been worthless in that the U.S. public has
tended to characterize these incidents entirely as hallucinations by ‘‘erack pots’, misidentification
of conventional objects, or that they represent a secret American project which should mot be pub-
_licized. Any fear that might result from Soviet use will come only by a discovery that the objects
have been Soviet aircraft and that they involve radical developments which are in advance of our
own accomplishments.

b. FOR PHOTOGRAPHIC RECONNAISSANCE. It is possible that the Soviets have employed the
flying objects for the collection of photographic intelligence or the mapping of certain areas in the
U.S. The evasive action employed by all objects sighted indicates not so much an attempt to avoid
being sighted, as an attempt to prevent disclosure of the exact type of flying craft and its mission.
The sighting of objects over the U.S. has been most intense in Eastern and Western Coastal States.
In addition, sightings of flying objects have been made near Oak Ridge, Tenn., Las Cruces, N. M.,
and in the general area of the Hanford Works in Oregon. Generally, sightings have not been made
over what we consider Strategic industrial areas. The reason for this. might be elther that the
flying objects have been observed only enroute to or from missions over these more concentrated
strategic areas, or that the Soviets obtained sufficient information during thelr World War I liaison
with U.S. industry to satisfy their intelligence requirements and have a more active requirement
for information on industries and areas which were not available to them during World War II con-
tacts. This is of interest in connection with the sightings near Oak Ridge, Las Cruces, and in the
general area of the Hanford Works since these oe Were not, and are not, accessible to
Soviet collectors of photographic intelligence.

¢. TEST OF U. 5. DEFENSES. It is possible that the use of Soviet flying objects over the 7 5.
is intended only to determine the ability of the U.S. defenses to spot foreign aircraft. This would
be of extreme importance to the U.S.S.R. in the event that a one-way all-out attack of Soviet strate-
gic bombers is planned. Ability to operate over the U.S. uninhibited at a time when the U. SG. is
supposedly re-arming and putting great stress on defenses would provide valuable information on
which to base estimates for probability of success in bombing strategic objectives in the U. 5S.

d. FAMILIARIZATION FLIGHTS OVER U. S. TERRITORY. This possible reason is perhaps the _
most improbable. 2Ssum Should this purpose be involved, other purposes are prob-
ably also accomplished in its erecution. Provided the U.S.8.R. has unusually high performance
aircraft they might find it advantageous to familiarize themselves with the Sune of the U.c.
_in anticipation of future combat missions to strategic targets.

6 CONCLUSION. The conclusion that some type of flying object has been observed over the U. S.
seems to be substantiated. It is not known at this time whether these observations are misidentifi- ©
cations of domestically launched devices, natural phenomena, or foreign unconventional aircraft. It
is, therefore, impossible to make any reliable explanation for their appearance over the U.S. or the
tactics which they may employ if the objects observed include any foreign developments in aero-
nautical fields. It is likewise impossible at this time to contain discussions of possible perform-
ance characteristics or tactics within limits of practical reason, if for no other reason than the
fact that proof of the existence of a foreign development of this type would necessarily introduce
considerations of new principals and means not yet considered practical possibilities in our own
research and development. .

APPENDIX ‘'C”
SELECTED REPORTS OF FLYING OBJECT INCIDENTS

1. A NUMBER of reports on unidentified flying obiects come from observers who, because of their
technical background and experience do not appear to be influenced by unfounded sensationalism nor
inclined to report explainable phenomena as new types of airborne devices. Some of the details of

their reports are presented in this appendix, along with those from possibly less reliable sources

who have reported evidence which is of such a nature that it cannot be entirely ignored.

4. DESCRIPTIONS OF significant incidents, arranged chronologically, follow:
a. During April 1947, two employees of the Weather Bureau Station at Richmond, Virginia re-
ported seeing a strange metallic disk on three occasions through the theodolite while making PIBAL.
observations. One observation was at 15,000 feet when a disk was followed for 15 seconds. The
disk appeared metallic, shaped something like an ellipse with a flat bottom and a round top. it
appeared below the balloon and was much larger in size. The disk appeared to be moving rather
rapidly, although it was impossible to estimate ved speed. ne other observations were made al
27,000 feet in like manner.

b. The following month, Byron B. Savage, a field engineer for Radio Corporation of America,
reported a disk flying near his home in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. The object was thought to be
at an altitude between 10,000 feet and 18,000 feet, and was moving toward the north at a high rate
of speed, leaving no trailing effects.

e. While flying at 10,000 feet on a course of 300 degrees, 30 miles northwest of Lake Meade,

Nevada, an Air Force lieutenant reported seeing five or Six while circular objects in close forma-_
tion and traveling at an estimated speed of 285 miles per hour. This sighting occurred on 28 June
1047.

d. The following day a party of three, two of them scientists, were motoring along Highway 17
toward the White Sand, New Mexico, V-d firing grounds and reported seeing a large disk or sphere
moving horizontally at a high speed and an estimated altitude of 10,000 feet. It was of uniform
shape and had no protruding surfaces such as wings. The object was in sight for about 60 seconds
before it disappeared to the northeast. The three observers agreed on the details of the sighting
except that one —— he had seen vapor trails.

6, On / Tuy 1947, fe Potlond. Oregon police officers reported varying numbers of disks fly-
ing over different parts of the ek All observations were made within a minute or two of 1305
hours.

_f£. On the same aay? William Rhoads of Phoenix, Arizona “eee saw a disk citcling his
locality during sunset and took two photographs. The resulting pictures (page 9) show a disk-like
object with a round front and a square tail in plan form. These photographs have been examined
by experts who state they are true photographic images and do nol appear to be imperfection in
the emulsion or imperfections in the lens. (Gee Figs. 1, 2, 3 and 4.)

6 ———=—=—Ci“=C*C#§QMIGINAL PHOTOGRAPHS BY MR RHOADS lr rr ic _iCsr
CISESELEES REDS pee mae |. S . So gs EE
a oe ee ee ee
SE 8 BE Ee — a oo co Tae - sr Os
Sor Oe EAR Ue! DBE PEM AS ERR ee WS eo cc ANG UE Se ee ee Hevucinnccmannt
CLI UCR JEEIEE Tae re TLS ETE RRR x ANAS ER OO BSN a SER CENA RCM CEES 60 |
OSSD) CEE See ee ~ RESON A oO SESE AY Gere ee ee
SOR REE ES OP Eh | oe ON - Co see ee Se
fo SE REE I . oS ‘S — << ee eee ee CO ee es
SSS SEE SEE Ce so SV eee ee Ce FE CO
AS EI Ud Ss es oO ler DON
ese areeae tae ane ties _ oo A i.  @
ee oo oc LDF
Romine |. . RG ae ON |... CF EEE. CLL
22 . SOS Cee, a y eG Oy See eee ee eres Ss re
i ltrti‘_OONWOOSOSOSOCCCisCi‘C( ‘NCSCCOCOUNi‘(CWOCtiO‘‘CNNSCCONé#(#N
ee err ce ee — Cr OS ee
pee | LC -.. aX SCRE — | oe errr
SS RR ee POUR RRS
ee ee ee eee : ee eee oe
eee a... AN _.. CD an 30D Ee
FS LLU
0 ele e.Cti“‘(‘“=‘i‘i‘(ONROONONOWOOCNidsCid«dCi«CdsétVstzéaCrt‘cC“‘Ul;:“(‘<é‘éCSSS

k. On 7 January 1948, a National Guard pilot was killed while attempting to chase an unidentified
object up to 80,000 feet. While it is. presumed that this pilot suffered anoxia, resulting in his crash,
his last message to the tower was, “it appears to be metallic object....of tremendous size....directly
ahead and slightly above....1 am trying to close for a better book.” _

1. On 5 April 1948, three trained balloon observers from the Geophysics Laboratory Section, _
Watson Laboratories, N.J. reported seeing a round, indistinct object in the vicinity of Hollman Air
‘Force Base, New Mexico. It was very high and fast, and appeared to execute violent maneuvers
at high speed. The object was under observation for: approximately 30 Seconds and disappeared
suddenly.

m. A yellow or light colored sphere, 25 to 40 feet in diameter was reported by Lt. Comdr.
Marcus L. Lowe, USN, just south of Anacostia Naval Air Station, D.C., while he was flying on
30 April 1948. It was moving al a speed of approximately 100 miles per hour at an altitude of
about 4,000 feet. Although winds aloft were from the north-northwest, its course was to the
north.

mp. On 1 July 1948, twelve disks were reported over the Rapid City Air Base by Major Hammer.
These disks were oval-shaped, about 100 feet long, {lying at a speed estimated to be in excess of —se_
500 mph, Descending from 10,000 feet, these disks made a 30-degree to 40-degree climbing turn
accelerating very rapidly until out of sight.

0. On 17 July 1048, a reper from Kirtland Air Force Base describes a sighting in the victnity
_of San Acacia, New Mexico, of seven unidentified objects flying in a ‘‘]’’ formation at an estimated _
height of 20,000 feet above the terrain. The formation varied from ‘‘]’”’ to ‘*L”’ to circle after
passing the zenith. Flashes from the objects were observed after passing 30 degrees beyond the
genith but there was no smoke or vapor trail. [f the reported altitude is correct the speed was
estimated at 1,500 miles per hour, according to the report.

_p. Other Sightings of lights and trails, rather than disks, have been reported, viz:
(1) On 12 September 1947, the pilot and co-pilot of a Pan American aircraft, en route from

Midway to Honolulu, saw a blue-white light approaching, changing to twin reddish oe oe
_ withdrawal. The pilot estimated the speed of the light at about 1,000 knots.

(2) On 15 June 1948, Mer. Bocesvile, territory manager for the B.F. Goodrich Company,
observed a reddish glow with a jet exhaust in the vicinity of Miles City, Montana. This
glowing light made no sound, traveled about twice the speed of a conventional aircrait and
_ftlew from noth to south several times © in a wide arc, finally disappearing over the horizon.

a. During the early morning of 25 July 1948, two Eastern Airlines pilots reported having seen
a huge flyine craft similar to a V-2 pass their aircraft in flight. (Gee Figs. 7 and 8.) The
attached drawings made by these two observers very closely resemble a flying object reported to
have been seen on 20 July 19468, by A. D. Otter, chief investigator of Court of Damage Inquiry, and
his daughter at Arnham, Netherlands. This object appeared to be a wingless aircraft having two
decks. The craft, sighted four times through seattered clouds and unlimited visibility, was travel-
ing at high speed at a high altitude. A sound similar to that made by a V-d was reported.

r. An object, similar in shape to the one in the preceding incident was reported by an experienced
American newspaper reporter about 25 kilometers northeast of Moscow on 3 August 1948. A Russian
acquaintance identified it as a rigid ee but the pepe — because it flew at a eh but

Or excessive speed, | . _ 2 _ a

. On 1 October 1948 at approximately 2030 hours the pilot of a F-651 aircraft, 2nd Lt. George
FE. ‘Gorton (North Dakota Air Nationa] Guard), flying near Fargo, North Dakota, sighted an inter-
mittent white light about 3,000 feet below his 4,500 feet cruising altitude. The pilot pursued the
_leht which appeared to then take evasive tactics. The object or light out-turned, out-speeded, and
oul-climbed the F-51 in every instance during the attempt to intercept. The pilot lost contact 27

MEE AEE TOR REET OT RTPA RCRD EERE NALS

minutes after the initial sighting. The same light was observed by three other witnesses from the
ground: Mr. L. D. Jensen, Air Traffic Controller, Mr. Manuel E. Johnson, Assistant Traffic Con-
troller, and Dr. L. N. Cannon, Oculist. A comparison of all testimony revealed that one object
was sighted and that it consisted only of a small round ball of clear white light with no apparent
Shape attached. It was about 6 to 8 inches in diamter. At times it traveled faster than the F-51
and performed maneuvers in an evasive manner. When first sighted the ball of light was travel-

ing at an estimated 250 miles per hour. Under this condition, the light was not continuous but
_ blinked off and on. At high performance the white light was continuous. Subsequent investigation _

eliminated the possibility that this incident may have been another aircraft or a meteorological
balloon.

t, On 18 Necbe: 1948 at approximately 2145 hours, three reserve pilots, 2nd Lt. Kenwood
W. Jackson, 2nd Lt. Glen L. Stalker, and 2nd Lt. Henry G. Combs, flying near Andrews Field,
Maryland, encountered an unidentified flying object. When first sighted, it appeared to be lighted
and flying at about 1,700 feet. Three or four passes were made in an attempt to identify it. The
pilot of the aircraft stated thal while diving his aircraft at approximately 240 miles per hour, the
object would climb vertically and then would drop below the aircraft from behind and continue to
circle. On the last pass, the landing light was switched on and momentarily a dull gray glow
from the object was observed. Lt. Combs stated he maintained contact for about ten minutes with
the object flying between the lights of Washington, D. C. and his aircraft. All that could be
observed was an oblong ball with one light, no wings and no exhaust flame. It finally made a
very tight turn and headed toward the cast coast at an estimated 500 to 600 miles per hour. At
the same time Staff Sergeant John J. Kushner observed from the ground an unusual object in the
air over Andrews Field. He stated that Il was not very high and that iL did not look like an
aircratt.

3, REPORTS OF radar intercepts point to ust air activity which may be related to flying
objects.

a. On 1 July 1947, a GCA radar at Hokkaido, Japan picked up an unidentified target at 16 miles,
with a speed in excess of 500 aes oe target split into two Largets, each estimated to be larger |
than a P-5l,

b. On 16 September 1947, an MEW radar at Fukuoka, Japan, picked up a target at 89 miles and |
trailed it to 19 miles, where it faded. Speed was 840-900 mph. The speed measurement, made
by a good crew through a 70-mile track, is believed accurate.

4. Investigations conducted by Headquarters, Air Materiel Command, have definitely established
the identification of 18 of approximately 210 so-called flying saucers which have been reported.
Approximately nine per cent of the total number of incidents are, therefore, eliminated from
further specific consideration. Among those incidents positively explained, three were hoaxes,
two were from unreliable witnesses. In the remaining 13 eliminated incidents, objects were
actually seen but investigation has shown [that they were celestial bodies or phenomena, meteoro-
logical and carnival balloons, and airborne cosmic ray experimental equipment. ‘The following
examples are presented for comparison of the information reported by witnesses and true identifi-
cation of the object involved:

a. On 22 July 1948, Captain Henry Glover (Ordnance Reserve) and his wife observed at Van
Nuys, California, an object which they were unable to positively identify. Object at first appeared
to be round and looked like a weather balloon at about 2,000 feet but there was no characteristic
bobbing. The wind was blowing on the ground but the object was quite steady. During the time
it was under observation, about an hour, it traveled through a vertical arc of about twenty-Tlive
(25°) degrees or more. The observer concluded that it was not a celestial body. [t has a bluish
luminescence and as the sun set, the object’s color gradually changed to orange at dusk and ceased _
to be illuminated almost instantaneously. The outline was clear and the air was clear with
visibility unlimited. The object traveled from the east to the west.

This object was determined by investigation to have been a balloon carrying cosmic ray
equipment.

b. On 19 August 1948, at approximately 1000 hours an unidentified flying object was visible.
from the ground at Godman Air Force Base, Kentucky. This object was estimated to be at about
30,000 to 40,000 feet altitude, spherical in shape, bright silver color and gave a bright reflection |
from the sun. An F-51 was dispatched from Standiford Air Force Base, Kentucky, to observe _C
the object. During observation from the ground, there was no change in the elevation of the object
and it seemed to be moving southwest from Godman Air Force Base. The F-51 which was flying |
over Godman AFB at an altitude of 30,000 to 35,000 feet reported that it was unable to locate the -
object although it was still visible from the ground with the naked eye. Azimuth and elevation
readings were taken by theodolite every minute and the path of the object was charted.

‘The object was determined to be the planet Venus by Mr. Moore, the head astronomer at
the University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky. [It is believed that earlier incidents at Godman
Field (reference paragraph 2k, page 12, Appendix ‘'C’’) may also have been observations of the
planet Venus.

5. AMONG THOSE lecldente still not positively explained, reported observations differ ey some
extent, but three eens categories of sightings emerge -- the flying disk, the ball of fire and
the large jet rocket. Interesting observations that were noted are:

a. Most of the objects are a thin disk, round on top and flat on the bottom. The front halt
of the disk 18 often circular, sweeping back to a Square tall across the full width. |

b. A high rate of climb as well as the apparent ability to remain motionless or hover for a |
considerable length of time is Das.

é Reported sizes have eo on that of a 25-cent piece to 250 feet in diameter, and from
the size of a pursuit aes to the bulk of six B-29 airplanes.

da. Speeds have ‘been estimated ‘throughout the entire range from very slow or hovering to
Supersonic, _

_e. Sounds and visual trails are not normally associated with the sightings.

APPENDIX ‘D”’
FLYING WING TYPE AIRCRAPT

1, AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERS in several countries have been engaged for some time in the
design, construction, and [light of flying wing type aircraft. The study of flying objects requires,
at least, a brief examination of proposed and existing unconventional aircraft whose configurations,
when seen by the uninitiated, could lead to reports of Strange flying devices. A description of
some of the more significant types by country follows.

4. GERMANY, At the end of World War I, German aircraft designers had numerous projects
under way Concerning tailless aircraft which conceivably could be mistaken for “‘Flying Saucers’’
or disc-like objects. It is nol clear just what the Soviets are doing in the way of developing
these projects but it is considered that German studies on tailless, delta-wing, and related con-
figurations are avallable to the U.5.5.R.

a. ARADO NIGHT AND BAD WEATHER FIGHTER, PROJECT I. This is a tallless, low-wing
monoplane with swept-back wing of large root chord and having a long, narrow fuselage.

Span _ 60.3 feet
Length 42.5 feet
Power Plant | @ Hes O11 turbe “ units
Max. Speed (sea level) 44] mph
Max. Speed (29,500 feet) 503 mph

b. ARADO E 581-4. A high-wing tailless single-seater with a single jet unit mounted in the :
fuselage. Fin and rudder units | are mounted on the wing midway between fuselage and he tip.
at the trailing edge,

Span 29.3 feet

Length 18.4 feet

Power Plant 1 HeS O11 turbo jet unit
Max. Speed (sea level) ~~

Max. Speed (service ceiling) --

c. GOTHA P 60 A. This was the first of the P 60 Series of jet fighters. It is a flying wing
type and, since the pilot and observer lie prone, there is no projecting canopy, thus permitting a
particularly clean design. The jet units are mounted at the rear of the center section, one above
and one below.

Span _ 40 feet 6 1/2 in.

Wing Area 504 square feet

Power Plant 2 BMW 003 turbo jet units
Max. Speed (23,000 feet) 596 miles per hour

d. HEINKEL P 1080. This is a single-seat fighter with a sharply swept-back wing, resembling
a flying wing type, but having a single fin and rudder with no tail plane.

=~Span 20.2 feet
Wing Area 218 square feet
No performance estimates are available.

ee ee TUN RERE BP OES Q. OF the lying wing typé, this project was established as a long-range, == —
ee ee ee Ce ee PASS OLD upbe Jeb RS 2 ee
DEL USSRIET DAS cc ae Ee OU eed oe SOMes Speed 5 ee GRO Milles per NOUR 8 PoP ene EE Eee as
ee Sie | -¥. ME 820. This is a tallless mid-wing monoplane driven by two pusher propellers wit the = = =. © co
ER gs ‘engines Centrally located in the wings on each side of the stubby wounded fuselage, =e
Me eet et es rer tor rc wm™mC™CsS
es —S—~*~=<“‘é wer Plant = 2 ~~=—~=~6=6= «6B DE 800 reciprocating engines km CO
OES ORT Ne MING 2 ohne Ge lOBeBt: “pesemblance to ihe estimated configuration of “Flying | DISKS 2 5 ee
» > ooMS represented by 7 the Horten Wing alreraft. Work on the Morten 2e0, a twin jel Mghter, had pro; = =. |
 eressed {o the final stages at the end of World War 1. Its prototype, a Horten glider, success= = = = 8 =a | 0
eee ees pogoared (a an aliitude of. 14, 200 feet as serh pas LOSS > proving the “soundness of this deslgn. 9 0 oe
Bee ree eee 0 Oe
ee Wh a |... oo Seer ee
(co ... a oo : OO
err —,—C(‘CCOCOCOCOCONCOCizsCia‘CY Soe ES EEE
PE Sak Se SSR EE — eS Ne a ee EES SEL Se ee
ae sisissi‘itS . oe - a. oe errr LrUECe—C—s
PUG re ed a ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee Os DCE ES SoS aes

en SON na Se Pt ol Te, ee rte Sane: a ee CE ar UT tether. JO SES Separates | AKUMA
bogie ae. delete ge Ee TRRITAN = Bee eee Oe oo
eee Sa ee i tind 5) Daa on be AW 62 appear below, :
Sete Tes oe Gosek Wes a poeta cal — = = ===6h6hnmhrmhmsmhmsS USING
ESggr ty BS es: oN hen Max. Speca (20,000 feet) 495 icno Ss .LLDrrrO—“™Cis os
feet SAREE 2 “Syn EET ee —“#R a
a | eee Pema EES Ee Se A GS ee i oe ee Aes — — So SO oy oe ee ‘
ae eres Sener ee ARMSTRONG === es ae 0lLlU ee a oT oo
ee oo Eepetimeta a a —_— oo err
ew a oe, 7 a So or
CO Coa oe a ee ee
i oe Sa oo es So —
RSE SC AE IIE T ) PT aN hake ee, er el ay EO te! SRM Tralee AOU Set ASSO ME URS DAUR AS GAN ENERGON AGEN VHS O NON SRA Neuron TAs lt le

Ae Fe OA ee ay a Ra Ry Na ee PED PES UR RS Reale MAAN OU Or OAR RRC CDSS SEIN OU SaRtER POURS SSN an LAA CKGST OS ASO HERES MIU SUN

Coke 8 oa Bate Peed LOPEC EL PUIEEEY ULAa tite Mat reece ASRS ASR SN HTH NURIA MACHA COREY

TROON SAU CRSA STO OPES

ratio wing with straight leading-edge and built tn nacelle... Im plan form, the wing is aimest cc iwewlCUmU
ee semiocbreular i
An Alr Force film, “Aeronautical Oddities’, shows this airplane in flight at South Bend, = gs
2) Hlgore 4 Aliiough & fs believes Ut he A ie ee h—L6Lrrlc Oe
0 OO t—OOOOCO
eet GC tlrrrrrr—OCOSCOCrC“CCC
SS rr—”"C a&wD.DmwUwUC~COCCOCCOCOCOCOCOCONOCMdwsrtsSCs—CisCC=iréat( rrr
 ——rtrt”é‘“_OiOCOSOSCSOSCSCSSS,—ER [_  ——=a=e™SSSCCCCC
2 | ae os a rrrrrr—“O™O™OCSCSCSCSsSSCSsSs=CEB»heOnw——
ee er eee eS oo oe ee ee
 @eéIO@QiQOf: _ ee r—“—OOO—S—SSsCSCs—sS—S—sNU~sSCwiC
Lr yo .. CBS gs
rr r—“ RE ee .rrr——“ es Ere ——
= rrr Cc cE “ClUmUmr CU : ee — “EEE
2 22. = =—hrc rmlmC—rcC“CcC lrlmULC™C™C<C<C<€p=€FhLUlhc<€<€CUiC.__dCONONd_t
hl ee eerttti‘(i‘i‘i‘i‘“‘O™OSOSOSOSOSOSOSOsOCOSOC=C*sésaaYWSTS

REGISTER OF PERSONNEL | teepemromnmnn EA PS

Ss. cont. # «| ODEr |
HANDLING TOP SECRET MATERIAL go usar | ne) 198g

D/I USAF 4p g54-Pentagon
“Mir Intel Rpt #100-208-"6, Cy #102 of 102 ae ine UNC LOSUNES

SubAOFOLIT U § : a ae

INSTRUCTIONS

The above described Top-Secret document has been received in this office this date. The circulation of
this material will be limited te the minimum number of persona necessary for completion of the required
action, The names of all persons handling or having knowledge of the subject document will be recorded
below as indicated.

The document wali be returned to the Top-Secret Control Officer (Room ) for record prior to

dispatch from this office or other disposition. This form will not be removed from the subject document
except by him when forwarding.

ALL PAPERS.
0900 Processing

PREVLOUS EDITIONS OF THIS. FORM

ARE OBSOLETE. 9-926,4F