NW 90306

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE OFFICE OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH (GAR)
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA < 22209

Attendees - meeting with Dr. James McDonald, University of Arizona
at the Pentagon 17 April 1967

Lt. Col. Harold A, Steiner, Ass't. Exec. Secre. USAF Scientific Advisory Board,
Pentagon, Room 5D982 Washington, D,C. Tele. 697-4648 (Code 11-74648).

Col. George Freeman, Chief, Civil Branch, SAFOI-C, Room 4A120, The Pentagon,
Washington, D.C, Tele. 697-1128 (Code 11-71128).

Col. Marvin Stanley, Chief, Public Information Division, SAFOIP, Room 40922,
The Pentagon, Washington, D.C. Tele. 695-5554 (Code 11-55554).

H. Philip Hovnanian, Program Engineer, NASA Hq. Room F50016, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W.
Washington, D.C. Tele. 962-4961 (Code 13-24961).

George H, Duncan, Advanced Programs & Technology Manager, NASA Hq. Room 50016,
400 Maryland Ave., S.W. Washington, D.C. Tele. 962-4961 (Code 13-24961).

Dt. Dale W, Jenkins, Ass't Director (Science), NASA Hq. Office of Space Science &
Applications Room F50078, Washington, D.C. Tele. 962-4621 (Code 13-24621).

Hans Dolezalek, Atmospheric Scientist, ONR Branch Office, 495 Summer Street,
Boston, Massachusetts 02210. Tele. 696-3563 (Code 11-63563).

Mr. James Hughes, Head, Atmospheric Science Program, Office of Naval Research,
Code 412, Washington, D.C, 20360. Tele. 696-6739 (Code 11-66739).

Phillip V. Mitchell, Technical Staff Member, Institute for Defense Analyses,
400 Army-Navy Drive, Arlington, Va. 22202. Tele. 558-1641.

Joseph Coates, Senior Staff Member, Institute for Defense Analyses, 400 Army-
Navy Drive, Arlington, Va. 22202. Tele. 558-1653.

Lynn E. Catoe, Library of Congress, Science & Technology Div., UFO Bibliography
Project, Washington, D.C. Tele. 967-8088.

Dan Taylor, Staff Information Officer, AFOSR (SRGC) Arlington, Va. 22209.
Tele. 694-4875. (Code 11-44875).

Maj. Joseph P, Martino, Ass't. Exec. Dir. Research Communication, AFOSR (SRGC)
Arlington, Va. 22209. Tele. 694-4875 (Code 11-44875).

Dr. J. Thomas Ratchford, Project Scientist, AFOSR (SRPS) Arlington, Va. 22209,
Tele. 694-5588 (Code 11-45588).

Maj. William Metscher, Physicist, Hq. OAR (RROSP) Arlington, Va. 22209.
Tele. 694-5505 (Code 11-45505).

DAN TAYLOR
Staff Information Officer

Doclhd:34714841 Page ?

MR

Ce

SH

SAUNA NIA

Be NE aa

SaaS SIMRO aR UMNO NMRANa ail:

age 3

1P

1

2347

id

USAF SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD
AD HOC COMMITTER TO
REVIEW PROJECT BLUE BOOK
Room 5D-1014, the Pentagon
1400, 19 April 1966

MEETING STATISTICS

I. Agenda:
1400 =Purpose of Meeting It Colonel Steiner, SAB
1410 Discussion All attendees

1630 Adjourn

ii, Purpose and Place: To discuss how best to implement the recommenda-
tions made by the SAB Ad Hoc Committee to Review Project Blue Book.
The discussion was held in Room 5D-1014, the Pentagon.

III. Those Present and Purpose Thereof:

Name Purpose Affiliation
Dr. Brian O'Brien Chairman Consultant

Dr. Jesse Orlansky Member IDA

Col Robert Burger SAB Secretary AFBSA

L/Col Robert Hippler Participant AFRSTA

Mrs. Sara Hunt Participant SAFOL

L/Col Harold A. Steiner SAB Secretary Hq USAF (AFBSA)

IV. Reports, Contributions, Proposals, etc. issued, received, reviewed,

Reviewed - Report of the SAB Ad Hoc Committee to Review Project Blue
Book, March 1966.

V. Verbatim Record: (see attached)

Vie Certification:

Uhese meeting statistics are certified as being brue and correct.

HAROLD A. STEINER, Lt Colonel, USAF 1 Atch
Assistant Secretary Record, dated 20 Apr 66
USAF Scientific Advisory Board

NW 90306
Docld:34714641 Page 5

MEMO FOR:

| 6 copies made

NW 90306
Doclhd: 34714841 Page 6

HEADQUARTERS UNITE. .ATES AIR FORCE
USAF SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE & CHIEF OF STAFF

Record

The following distribution was made on Memo for
Record, 20 Apr 66, regarding UFO Meeting 1400,
19 April 66, Room 5D-1014;

#2 of 6 - mailed to Dr. Stevers
#3 of 6 - sent to Lt Col Hippler, AFRSTA
#4 of 6 ~ sent to Mrs. Sara Hunt, SAPOI
#5 of 6 - circulsted vithin AFBSA. ,

Lot, A oaers a pee

USAP SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD
REVIEW PROJECT BLUE BOOK
HQ FID, WRIGHT-PATTERSON AFB, OHIO
3 FEBRUARY 1966

MEETING STATISTICS
1. feowis: (ee avonehed )

ii. Furpose and Place: To review the resources, eticds and. findings
of Air Force Project Blue Book and to advise the Air Force as to
any improvements that should be made in the program to carry out
the Air Force's responsibility. Briefings held in Commanders
Conference room at Hq, FID. Discussions and review of case files
held in Project Blue Book office.

III. Those Present and Purpose Thereof:

Name Purpose Affiliation

Dy. Brian O'Brien Chairman Consultant

Dr. launor F. Carter Member System Pevelommeny Corp.
Dr. Jesse Orlansky Member IDA

‘Dre. Richard Porter =s«is_—<“‘i‘w##é«#REC AMemece—“‘COiéiCONCONCOCOOCWNCOiCOiCiCisCiCtisC;C‘éCé@G: «Crema

Dr. Carl Sagan Member Sinithsonien Astrophysical

Observatory

Dr. Willis H. Ware Member Rand Corporation

L/Col John P. Spaulding Briefer SAFOI

Dr. Anthony Caciloppo Participant FID

Col Warren Wheeler Participant FLED

Maj Hector Quintanella Briefer FED

My. Francis Arcier oo Percicipant §=«=s=—=s,—Cis Psu tent to PPD

Col Florian Holm Briefer ; FID

L/Col Harold A. Steiner SAB Sec Hq USAF (AFBSA)

Reviewed: Robertson Report, dated 1/ Jamary 1955
Selected case histories from Project Blue Book

Distributed: Compilation of Project Blue Book Methods and Case Histories,
dated 3 February 1966

Vv. Verbatim Record: None
Vi. Certification:

These meeting statistics are certified as being true and correct.

Assistant AS
NW 90306 gyentit ic Advisory Board |

"Pag HE

Docld:3471484T

: ‘AD HOC COMMITTEE ON
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS (UFOs)

AGENDA

Thursday, 3 February 1966

0800 Welcoming Remarks Commander or
Vice Commander, FID

0805 _— Introduction | a Dr. O'Brien, SAB

0810 The Air Force Problem Lt Col Spaulding,
SAFOL

0830 Briefing on Project Major Quintanilla,
Blue Book FID

1000 Break

1015 Review of Selected FID Staff
Case Histories

1145 Lunch

1315 Executive and Writing
Session

APPROVED: _

J Doe Lt Colonel, USAF
kee latent Executive Secretary
USAF Scientific Advisory Board

22 December 1965

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 8

Fer Official Use Only

MEMO FOR RECORD 20 April 1966

SUBJECT: Implementing SAB Ad Hoc Committee on Project Blue Book
Recommendations

1. ‘The following personnel met at 1400 on 19 April in Room 5D-1014
to discuss how best to implement the recommendations made by the SAB
Ad Hoc Committee to review Project Blue Book.

Dr. Brian O'Brien Colonel Robert Burger, AFBSA
Dr. Jesse Orlansky Lt Col Harold Steiner, AFBSA
Lt Col Robert Hippler, AFRTSA Mre. Sara Hunt, SAFOL

a ee

2. On 5 April 1966, Secretary of the Air Force Harold Brown, in a ; ;
memorandum to the Chief of Staff, stated that the Committee's oe °
recommendations should be accepted and arrangements made for a (sic) a.
scientific team to investigate in depth certain selected sightings
of UFOs. General Ferguson was given responsibility for implementing

the Committee's recommendations and Lt Colonel Hippler is project

officer. '

3. Although the Committee's recommendation was clear and succinct,
initially there was no unenimous agreement on how to put this
recommendation into effect. A basic question is:

(1) Should the contract be with a university or should it be
with individuals connected with a university? A great deal of .
the meeting was taken up discussing these facets of the problem
end a clear answer did not evolve. Therefore, it is probable that
I, and perhaps some selected members of the Committee,may be asked
to meet with Colonel Hippler again.

4, Generally, the concept of using universitied or individuals from
universities) is good. Specifically, however, there needs to be a lead
university to coordinate and collate the investigations. After

some discussion, it was suggested that the University of Dayton is
probably most appropriate because it is located close to Hq FID who
will retain management of Project Blue Book. ‘Other universities

were suggested that could provide personnel to give areal coverage

of CONUS. They are listed below.

East West South .
Rensselaer, Troy, N.Y. Utah Vanderbilt Phe
Columbia Colorado i” Duke — ‘
NYU Iowa Univ of Florida
Univ of Conn. Wisconsin Georgia Tech
Yale Illinois Univ of Georgia
Cornell Chicago
Univ of Dayton Univ of Calif (Berkeley)
Carnegie Tech UCLA
Oregon
Washington
Rice
Univ of Texas

Copy Nr 5 of ¢ Copies | _hesst
NW 90306 Fer Official Use Only Adm. ‘Asst.
Docld:34714841 Page 9

For Official Use Only

vs

Colonel Hippler pointed out that it will probably be September before
he gets the money to implement this plan. Dr. Orlansky pointed out
that because of the summer holiday, Colonel Hippler should make contact
with the universities before the end of May.

5. Since we are dealing with an emotional phenomenon, there was some
discussion about whether universities (i.e., their presidents) would be
willing to get involved with UFOs. Dr. O'Brien suggested that Dr. Stever;
as President of Carnegie Tech, might send letters to a few selected
university presidents with whom he is acquainted to get some idea of
their feelings on this matter. (ACTION: AFBSA). In this way we can
learn what a typical reaction might be and also some of the pitfalls
to avoid when contacting other universities.

6. There are still several wmanswered questions or problem areas:

(a) Since the problem is 99% public relations,it is essential that
the investigating teams have some modicum of skill in press relations.
It was strongly suggested that a good solid PIO type (perhaps incognito)
be included on the first few investigation teams. This caused quite a.
bit of discussion and a final answer did not evolve.

(b) The objective is to have impartial scientists from schools with
good reputations that have never been involved with UFOs.

(c) Considerable thought must be given to how the contract or
contracts are to be written.

(a) In order to utilize their talents to the best advantage, it was
proposed and accepted that Dr. J. Allen Hynek and Dr. Donald Menzel
form the nucleus of a Consultant-Advisor team to work with Hq FTD in
determining which sightings the university team should investigate.

(e) When teams are selected, it is strongly recommended that they
be brought together at some certain location such as Hq FID and given
a thorough briefing on what is expected of them. This briefing should
cover all of the intangibles and pitfalls that must be avoided in
order to give good Air Force public relations.

(f) Another question that was not fully resolved is how AFSC
should get into the act. The Committee's original thought was that
someone from the nearest AFSC base should work with the investigating
team. The Committee also recommended that a member of the OSI might
work with the university teams and give them the benefit of their
investigating experience. It was questioned whether this would help
or hurt the Air Force effort. Neither of these questions were
fully resolved. | | ee

For Official Use Oniv

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 10

‘—o Official Use Only

(g) It was pointed out that the National Research Council had
conducted an exercise in Disaster Research which had involved some
investigating teams similar to the ones we are discussing. Although
the committee is now defunct, Mrs. Marjorie Wilson, Government Code
122) - 230/239 has their reports and will be glad to let us review
them.

» Lt Col, USAF

eee

Assistant Becretary

USAF Scientific Advisory Board

a

: Fer Official Use Only
NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 11

EUAN EDU NAY RUS ANU SOE

é LAE LEASE TE TATTLE SE TER

WV ALS, DISAPPROVAL, |
OR SIMILAR ACTUOn |

(2 To . Pamerians | ¢

sce ERAS

( Hasert )

TENSE

SHOES AD

DD Form 04, 1 Feb 60 and DD Porm 04,
1 Feb SO whieh will be wood until exbe

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 12

ae Ee,
ul
COPY
AFRDQ-P 31 July 1967
Special Report of the USAF Scientific Advisory Board Ad
Hoc Committee to Review Project “Blue Book”
‘USAIRA (DATT - Mr. David Smith & Mr. Peer pee)
American Embassy ;
APO San Francisco 96346
Copies of the subject report are forwarded at the request
of Mr. Jesse Orlansky, a member of the Sclentific Advisory
Board Committee on UFO's.
FOR THE CHIEF OF STAFF
dh off Coutien: thee oy USAF 1 Atch
J Cijer, Requirements Plans Group Special Report of the
#48/Operational Requirements & USAF SABAd Hoc Com-
Development Plans, DCS/R&D mittee to Review
| _ Project “Blue Book” dtd

Mar 66, 2 cys

Docld:34714841 Page 13

NW 90306

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD 18 May 1966

SUBJECT: Conversation with Dr. Stever Concerning SAB Support to USAF
Investigations of UFOs

a2. On 17 May I discussed SAB support to USAF investigations of UFOs with
Dr. Stever. In a previous letter (dated 21 April 66), we had asked

Dr. Stever to informally query some of his university-president colleagues
to determine the best modus operandi for approaching universities and
asking them to provide people and resources to investigate eclentifically
i eg oo he aguante as recommend ommittee. This
cumen. ings and conclusions on this matter.

@. On the basis of his informal contacts with university presidents,

Dr. Stever believes the Air Force will get mixed reactions to its request
to universities. On the negative side of the picture, he has ——
these general reactions:

a. It may be against some school's policy to make contractual
arrengements with the government.

Some universities will have no interest or have any qualified
investigators.

3- On the positive side, the following reactions were received:

@. Some universities will do the job under contract.

Some would like to do the job from a research aspect. (NOTE:
Dr. Stever commented that this may be the “foot in the door” approach
to request additional research funds for work at the university that

may be construed to be related to the UFO investigation.)

-h, Dr. Stever believes that, as a whole, the smaller wiversities will

be more receptive than the larger ones.

5. Dr. Stever has
sending the initial letters to the selected universities. He believes
that the letter should come from and be signed by an action office within
the Air Force. The letter might refer to the recommendations of the SAB
sclentific committee as a basis for the Air Force actions to initiate a
more scientific approach in future selected UFO investigations. In other
words, instead of a letter from a college president to a college president,
~ Stever felt the Air Force could make a very acceptable case if it

had some second thoughts on the SAB (specifically, him)

@. ‘The value of participating in such investigations to the school, and

b. The value to the Air Force and the nation.

Docld:34714841 Page 15

6. Dr. Stever stated that he would be happy to review and critique
the draft letter from a wiiversity president's viewpoint.

7+ Dr. Stever also sugge ; OSR could probably advise which
universities are most likely to cooperate end since most universities

lealings with OSR, perhaps that orgenization could offer some

advice on the initial letter and maybe even send the letter from that
oFtiea *

Copies to:

oar Mrs. Hunt, SAFOI
USAF Scientific Advisory Board Dr. beten O'Brien

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 16

. . DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FOR Gs
WASHINGTON

A , 2 aie
OFFICE OF THE SECTOTARY P R {

MEMORANDUM FOR THE CHIEF OF STAFF

Attached is a copy of the Special Report of

the SAB Ad Hoc Committee to Review Project "Blue

I believe that the Committee's recommendations
should be accepted and arrangements made to contract
. for a scientific team to investigate in depth certain
selected reported sightings of UFO's. JIf-you concur,
General LeBailly can work with General Ferguson and
AFSC in making the arrangements.

Fiarctcet Bere
Harold Brown

Attachment '

NW 90306

~~ PE." OTH EO EH Dare, 1

SURNAME OF ACTION OF FICER AND GRADE

DEPAR™’ “ENT OF THE AIR FORCE AIR STAFF “ (MARY SHEET

ACTION SIGNATURE (Surname and Grade)

SYMBOL

AFBSA

Lt Colonel Steiner

SAB Ad Hoc Committee Report

DATE .
| 30 March 1966

1. Attached for your signature is a letter transmitting to General LeBailly the
Special Report of the SAB Ad Hoc Committee to Review Project Blue Book.

S$ UMMAR Y

2. The Committee was formed and the report is being submitted in response to
General LeBailly's memorandum to you on 28 September 1965 (Atch 2) requesting
that the SAB review Air Force Project Blue Book. The objective of this
investigation was to determine if and how the Air Force could improve its
program for investigating UFO's. The Committee concluded that the program
can be improved by conducting a more thorough scientific investigation of
questionable sightings, and recommended a method for doing this.

3. Recommended distribution is:

Number of Copies
25

AFSC DCS/Foreign Technology 2
SAB Secretariat 2
Ghai Dik § SAB iL

pieke

Lh. After your signature and approval of the recommended distribution, we will
take-gppropriate action to forward the copies of the report.

ROBERT J. BURGER, Colonel, USAF 2 Ateh

Secretary l. Ltr of Transmittal
USAF Scientific Advisory Board 2. SAFOI Memo, 28 Sep 65

FORM

AFHQ vere: 50 previous EDITIONS OF THIS FORM ARE OBSOLETE.

Docld:34714841 Page 19

a

7
le

cc

Ee ae

SET as RE

aeveaubnnnines

pina

NSERC NOIRE

age 20

Z

1

i347

id

DEPART NT OF THE AIR FORCE AIR STAFF £ WARY SHEET

ACTION SIGNATURE (Surname and Grade)

SIGNATURE (Surname and Grade)

SUSPENSE DATE

SYMBOL

AFBSA

SURNAME OF ACTION OF FICER AND GRADE

Col Burger

SUBJECT

SAB Information/Action Item 5 October 1965

SUMMAR Y

1. This request arrived in our office today apparently without
your seeing it.

i TTI ONO CESS DTTC DEA RAN BATIONI

2. 1 discussed it briefly with Dr. Stever and his initial reaction
was lukewarm. He questioned the value of a review of the UFO pro-
gram by the SAB. He suggested that we might talk to some other SAB
members knowledgeable in this area to get their opinion on the
value of such an SAB undertaking. We thought of Brian O'Brien
(FTD/DAG), Jesse Orlansky (Psychology), Dick Porter (Geophysics) ,
and possibly Court Perkins. .and Dr. Markey.

3. Before we do this, however, Dr. Stever thought we should get
your views on this to see if perhaps there is some additional
information or facts which would give a clue on why the request

wae pace

ROBERT J, BURGER, Colonel, USAF Atch
.. Secretary Memo on UFOs

“USAF Scientific Advisory Board

Lh brid Mn; wh Wa Zy Le Lowe full bas

AFHQ Jos 50° previous EDITIONS OF THIS FORM ARE OBSOLETE.

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 21

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

MEMORANDUM FOR MILITARY DIRECTOR, SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD
SUBJECT: Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs)

In keeping with its air defense role, the Air Force has the
responsibility for the investigation of unidentified flying objects
reported over the United States. The name of this project is Blue
Book (Attachment 1), Procedures for conducting this program are
established by Air Force Regulation 200-2 (Attachment 2),

The Air Force has conducted Project Blue Book since 1948, As
of 30 June 1965, a total of 9267 reports had been investigated by
the Air Force. Of these 9267 reports, 663 cannot be explained,

It has been determined by the Assistant Deputy Chief of Start/
Plans and Operations that Project Blue Book is a worthwhile program
which deserves the support of all staff agencies and major commands
and that the Air Force should continue to investigate and analyze
all UFO reports in order to assure that such objects do not present
a threat to our national security, The Assistant Deputy Chief of
Staff/Plans and Operations has determined also that the Foreign
Technology Division (FTD) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base should
continue to exercise its presently assigned responsibilities concern-
ing UFOs.

To date, the Air Force has found no evidence that any of the
UFO reports reflect a threat to our national security. However,
many of the reports that cannot be explained have come from intelli-
gent and technically well qualified individuals whose integrity can-
not be doubted, In addition, the reports received officially by the
Air Force include only a fraction of the spectacular reports which
are publicized by many private UFO organizations,

Accordingly, it is requested that a working scientific panel
composed of both physical and social scientists be organized to
review Project Blue Book -- its resources, methods, and findings --
and to advise the Air Force as to any improvements that should
be made in the program in order to carry out the Air Force's
assigned responsibility.

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 22

NW 90306

Dector Je Allen Hynek who is the Chairman of the Dearborn
Observatory at Northwestern University is the scientific consultant

to Project Blue Book.

He has indicated a willingness to work with

such a panel in order to place this problem in its proper perspec-

tive.

- Doctor Hynek has discussed this problem with Doctor Winston

Re Markey, the former

a Attachments
1, Blue Book Report
2, AFR 200-2

Docld:34714841 Page 23

Air Force Chief Sclentiste |

ie
cet
é

oD). ORL
E. Be LeBATLLY
Major General, USAF
Director of Information

NW 90306

February 13, 1969

Lt. Colonel Harold A. Steiner, USAF
Assistant Executive Secretary.

USAF Scientific Advisory Board
Department of the Air Force
Headquarters United States Air Force
Washington, D.C. 203530

Dear Hal,

IT appreciate your thoughtfulness in sending me a copy of
the Condon Report on UFO's. He and his group seem to have done
a tremendous job, just about what our committee thought was
needed. I guess we were very lucky to have reviewed the situation
in such timely fashion in 1966. The fine endorsement of his work
by the National Academy of Sciences confirms that Condon has done
what was needed.

It is a pleasure to see this fruitful outcome to our recom-
mendation and I appreciate having the report.

Docld:34714841 Page 24

SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION Col Mamta
mid

2500 Colorado Avenue: Santa Monica, California 90406

| February 28, 1969

Lt. Colonel Harold A. Steiner
USAP Scientific Advisory Board
Headquarters U. S. Air Force
Washington, D. C. 20330

Dear Colonel Steiner:

Thank you very much for sending me the Condon Report
and the National Academy of Sciences review of the
report. I have not yet had time to read the com-
plete report but have glanced through it, and it
certainly seems comprehensive. The National Academy
review certainly gives it good credibility and

ought to take care of any serious criticism.

Cordially yours,

’ NN

Laufiow.F. Carter
Vice President and Manager
Public Systems Division

LFC : db

NW 90306
Doclhd:34714841 Page 25

Guyford Stever

egie-Mellon University
pittsbureh » Pennsylvania 15213

excellent of the study a nts

Sincerely

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 26

Ly and believe tt puts the

be « Brian O ‘art et
Sonsullting Phy

Dear Dr. O'Brien

you feel as I do that it wae wo

Sine erely

Dr. Launor F. Garter
Mr. Jesse Orlansky
Dr. Richard Porter
Dr. Carl Sagan

Dr. Willis H. Ware

NW 90306
Docid:34714841 Page 27

20330

AFBSA 27 February 1968

Request for Project

} to your visit on 26 February 1968 d
ve provide you with oes :

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 28

i

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 29

Project Blue Book Material

Mr. Don Berliner

National Investigations Committ
on Aerial Phenomena

1536 Connecticut Avenue, NW

Washington, D. C. 20036

1. This is in response to your letter of 28 February 1968 requesting
and paying for material prepared for the USAF Scientific Advisory Board
by the Project Blue Book office.

2. Copies of this material are attached. A fee of $5 was ba
unit cost of 25¢ per page plus $3 per hour labor.

sed on the

OLD A. STEINER, Lt Colonel, USAF 1 Ateh
istant Executive Secretary Project Blue Book Material
mar Selentific Advisory Board

ws

NATIONAL. INVESTIGATIONS COMMITTEE
ON AERIAL. PHENOMENA

MAJOR DONALD E. KEVYHOE WASHINGTON, BD, C. 20036 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES:
USMC RET.) DIRECTOR 1336 GONNECTICUT AVE., N.W,
GORDON I. R. LORE, JR. Feb, 28, 1968

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR TELEPMONE: (202) 667-3424

Lt, Gol, Hereld A. Steiner
Assistant Executive Secretary
USAF Scientific Advisery Board
HQ, USAF

Washingten, D.C, 20330

Deer Cel, Steiner?

Enclesed is my persenel check fer $5,00 te cever the cest of repreducing the pages
of Preject Blue Book material which we discussed en Feb, 26,

Meany thanks fer yeur ceeperation,

_Sincerely,

Den Berliner
NICAP Staff

A privalely-supported factfinding body serving the national public interest
NW 90306 |
Docld:34714841 Page 30

| NW 90306

20330

* AFDASBA/SSgt Ehrlich/7)835

| Request for Project Bluebook Reports

20 Feb 68

' Mr. Don Berliner

National Investigations Committee

on Aerial Phenomena

1536 Connecticut Avenue

- Washington, DC 20036

1. Reference your request directed to SAF-OICC for portions of Project
Bluebook Reports.

2. We maintain a reference copy of the material you requested and can
furnish you photographic copy at a cost of $12.75. If you are inter~
ested in purchasing a copy, please make your check or money order
payable to "Treagurer.of the United States" and remit to this office.

ELLIS F

VILLIARD
‘ Chief, Information Branch
Direotorate of Administrative Servicds

| Docld:34714841 Page 31

NW 90306

oy ¥

July 27, 1967

Mr. Chester N. Hasert
Acting Executive Secretary

USAF Scientific Advisory Board
Room 5D1014, The Pentagon
Washington, D. C.

Dear Chet:

When I was in Thailand last week, I spoke to several men
at the U.S. Embassy who told me about an interesting problem
that faces them. Very Simply, the Thai government has made
numerous reports of mysterious helicopter flights in the North-
east part of the country near Laos, an area in which Communist
terrorists have been increasing their activity. Although the
members of the U. S. Embassy take these reports very seriously,
they have never been able to authenticate a single valid sight-
ing.

I would not have given this matter any further thought
except that someone said the reports of these sightings were
very much like the reports of UFO's meaning, thereby, that one
unusual report is likely to inspire additional ones. It seemed
to me that the SAB report on UFO's might be useful to these men
in the sense that it would provide them with a basis for seeing
that a more valid understanding of the problem could require a
more thorough examination than has been possible up to now. It
is with this suggestion in mind that I hope you will be able to
send a copy of the report to two men in the Embassy very much
coneerned with this matter. They are Peer de Silva and David
Smith. Mr. de Silva is Special Assistant for Counterinsurgency
and Mr. Smith is Special Assistant to the Ambassador. I hope
that it will be possible for our Embassy in Thailand to take

advantage of the work done by the SAB committee chaired by Brian

O'Brian.
Cordially,
JO:mh J ee

cc: Dr. H. Guyford Stever

Docld:34714841 Page 32

io

NW 90306

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD 16 May 1967

BUBJECT; Some Notes Concerning a Progress Report on
University of Colorado UFO Study

1. On 5 May 1967, members of the University of Colorado UFO Investigating
Committee presented a ‘position paper” on the state of their thinking on
the UFO Study. This memo is based on verbatim notes taken at that meeting
and augments the formal presentation (Atch 1). A report of the Committee's
progress up to 31 March is also included (Atch 2).

a. The mecting was held in Dr. Bill Price's office at OSR. The following
personnel attended:

Dr. Edward V. Condon, Univ of Colorado (UOC), Principal
Investigator

Mr. Robert J. Low, UOC, Project Coordinator

Dr. W. K, Hartman, Univ of Arizona, a member of the UOC
Study Committee

Dr. William Price, OSR

Dr. Yom Ratchford, OSR

Dr. Jesse Orlansky, SAB

Dr. Willis Ware, SAB

Mr. Chester N. Hasert, SAB

Lt Col Harold A. Steiner, SAB

Lt Col Robert Hippler, APRSTA

Mr. Charles K. Reed, Nat Acad of Sclences

Mr. L. ¥. Brasher, OSR Procurement

Mr. Dan Taylor, OSRK Public Information

3. The basic problem confronting the UOC Study Committee is establishing

a methodology for investigating UFOs. In the Committee's opinion, previous
investigations have produced few, if any, tangible results because these
studies have primarily been concerned with investigating sightings.
According to the UOC Committee, the basic question is not the sighting per
se but how to interpret the data obtained from reports that are generated
from Sightings. Thus, additional sightings as currently handled by Project
Blue Book (NOTE: no criticism of Project Blue Book was inferred) will not
Bive the Committee a better picture of wnet UFOs really are. Something
else is ueedec,

4, Admittedly, if better data were available (i.e., those obtained with
spectrometers, magnetometers, etc.) they could undoubtedly give the Com-
mittee a better insight into the UFO problem, but in the 18 months allotted
for the study the probability of the UOC Committee getting significantly
better data is small. The possibility of getting actual, real-time data
with spectrometers, magnetometers, etc., is highly unlikely. Ergo, the
concept of having specialized, instrumented teams standing ready to move
quickly into an area where UFOs were or are being sighted and obtain
actual, real-time data does not appear likely to produce much. To

Docld:34714641 Page 33

‘a re

_ substantiate this conclusion, the UOC Committee elites the experience of
NICAP teams of “eager amateurs’ armed with cameras, magnetometers, and
other specialized instrumentation who have gone instantly to sighting
zones and attempted to obtain actual data. Despite their zeal, these
beams apparently have never been able to Obtain actual, real-time data,
The conclusion, therefore, is that the UOC Committee will have to work
with data that are available (i.e., reports from those who have sighted

UFOs) and attempt to interpret those data so as to obtain a better under-
standing of UFOs.

). Although the UOC Committee will deal primarily with data from reports,
this will not preclude some team investigations of current sightings of
special interest. Primary and back-up teams each consisting of two members
(a physical scientist and a social scientist) are now being equipped with
suitable instruments (lie. Gileger counters, binoculars, cameras, maps,
almanaes, etc.). ‘These teams will be on stand-by alert at Colorado to ©
investigate sightings of special interest. One unresolved question is how
to determine which sightings to investigate. These teams will not be
decentralized because the transportation from Denver to any part of the
United States is adequate. After listening to this briefing, one cannot
avoid the conclusion that the actual field investigations will be low
priority items and will be played in low key during this investigation.

6. Discussion on the teams' activities led to another question basic to
the Air Force approach to the UFO problem and one that the UOC Committee
hopes to provide answers to--is a large field organization composed of an
investigating officer at each Air Force base worthwhile? Lf such a system
does not produce worthwhile, tangible results then the Air Force does not
need it. If such a system does produce results then perhaps the Air Force
heéds to refine its teporting and investisgatine procedures, i.6., Project

Blue Book and AFR 80-17. The Committee has developed an improved reporting
form in consultation with psychologists to be used to obtain data from
future Sightings. Project Blue Book might find this useful.

1. Some interesting aspects of the UOC Committee's approach to the inves-
tigation are:

a. An attempt will be made to establish reliability of the reports
and/or reporters. UOC wants to know how many are reliable, how many are
accurate.

b. The Committee will assume some hypothesis that UFOs may exist.
They will then try to determine how much evidence supports the probabilit:
Or improbability of this hypothesis. Thus far the best hypothesis that
UFOs exist appears to be the one proposed by Mr. Richard Hall, Deputy
Director of NICAP. His is an active hypothesis whereas McDonald's is
passive. According to the Committee, Hall definitely believes UFOs exist
and are extra-terrestrial, solid objects. McDonald also believes they
exist and are of extra-terrestrial origin but arrives at his conclusion

e

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 34

"by remainder’ after eliminating all other possibilities of terrestrial
and divine origin and leaving extra-terrestrial as the only alternative.
At this time, the UOC Committee apparently favors the Hall hypothesis.

c. Data from sightings are being put on punch cards. the coding
System Gan be expanded up to 50 cards per sighting. All reports of
sightings after 1 January 1967 are being computerized. For cases prior
to 1967, the Committee asked NICAP to pick out cases they believe should
be included in the computer analysis part of the investigation. When
questioned as to why NICAP was solicited as a source, the Committee stated
that if their report is to have any credibility then NICAP would have to
be involved in one form or another. Jl am inclined to agree with their
Viewpolne.

8. There will be 21 senior sclentists associated with the UOC project.

9. Im my Opinion, one of the most interesting and potentially beneficial
facets of the Committee's investigations is the sub-contracts with various
agencies and individuals (i.e., SRI, Ford, RAND, NCAR, etc.) to study such
phenomena as illumination, visual perception, fireballs, radiochemistry,
ball Lightning, etc., as they apply co UrOs.

10. CONCLUSIONS: After listening to the UOC briefing and discussing the
matter informally with others, I do not believe the SAB Ad Hoc Committee
should pursue this matter further at this time. The UOC Committee seems

to have a fairly good grasp of the problem, and I do not see what useful
purpose the SAB Committee can serve. later in the calendar year after the
UOC Committee has gained experience and analyzed some data, it might be
usetul for us to convene st Boulder for 6 series of formal brielings on

the results end scope of the investigation. i can see a useful purpose

for such @ meeting. Gince in a sense the UOC Committee is a brainchild of
the GAB, the GAB Ad Hoc Committee could review the UOC Committee's progress
and serve as a useful “devil's advocate’ or sounding board to help estab-
dish eredibility. ‘The SAB could also suggest hew directions where warranted.
This type of SAB action would, of course, have to be done with the sanction
of Dr. Stever, OSR, and Dr. Condon.

TRROL AER Tt Colonel, USAF 2 Atch
Asti ctant Deccutiv Secretary 1. Comments by UOC Committee
USAF Sclentiiic Advisory Board 2. Progress Report

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 35

NW 90306

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD 10 August 1966
SDUBJECT: Visit by Mr. William P. Wietzel, NICAP

1. Today I was visited by Mr. William Wietzel, an investigator for the
National Investigating Committee on Aerial Phenomena. Mr. Wietzel did
not have an appointment but just dropped in, presumably to discuss the
report of the SAB Ad Hoc Committee to Review Project "Blue Book.” This
we did; however, the discussion soon deteriorated to an indytf@ment of the
way in which Major Quintella had handled the Ravenna, Ohio, UFO siting

in April 1966. With regard to this particular siting, the main criticism
of Major Quintella seems to be that his interviews with the people who
had sited the UFO were restricted to about three minutes each via the
telephone. However, in all fairness, it should be pointed out that

Major Quintella did visit the scene of the Ravenna siting at a later date.

2. 1 neither concurred with Mr. Wietzel'’s opinion of Major Quintella nor
did I defend Major Quintella strongly. I did point out that, hopefully,
the university teams now being formed will provide scientific information
that can eliminate the type of personality conflict that apparently exists
between NICAP and Major Quintella.

3. There was some additional discussion of the pertinent information con-
cerning the Ravenna siting of which Mr. Wietzel was a principal NICAP
investigator. He has completed a lengthy and voluminous report of this
Siting that is impressive in size if not in content. I asked Mr. Wietzel
if NICAP investigated every UFO siting as thoroughly as they had apparently
investigated this one. The obvious answer was no because NICAP has

limited resources. I then pointed out that the Air Force also has Limited
resources and cannot spend as much time on each UFO siting as 1t would like.
We parted amiably at an impasse. He did not convince me, and I certainly
did not convince him,

oe A. STEINER, Lt Colonel, USAF

Assistant Secretary
USAF Sclentifie Advisory Board

Docld:34714841 Page 36

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON, D.c.

REPLY TO

ATTN OF: 21 January 1966

suvec: Some SAFOI Thoughts for the SAB Ad Hoc Committee on UFOs

ro: RECORD

1. On 21 January, I visited SAFOL and discussed the Air
Force's concern over the UFO problem with Lt Col John P.
Spaulding and Mrs. Sarah Hunt (4a 120 - 79079).

= 2. SAFOI gets many inquiries concerning ‘the UFO problem,

Last year they received and answered more than 3300 letters
on UFOs including many from the President and the Congress.
The problem essentially boils down to one that is typified
by the question, ''When did you stop beating your wife?"

Any answer the Air Force gives tends to ineriminate the

Air Force as a concealer of information and at the very
least detracts from its image. SAFOI has to cope with this
public relations problem and wants something done about it.
Therefore they have turned to the SAB.

3. The last time that a group of scientists looked into the
scientific aspects of the UFO problem was in 1953. Attachment 1
is a copy of that report.

4. Basically the question is this--is there any such thing as
a UFO? When the Air Force receives information on a UFO
sighting they have several options open to them, First, they
ean categorically deny that there is anything such as a UFO,
Second, they can cast reflections on the sighters mental
ability or claim that he is trying to perpetrate a hoax on

the country, Third, they can investigate the sighting as
well as possible with their limited resources (3 men at FID)
and admit that the AF is looking into the matter, Obviously,
options one and two offer no solution. Thus, SAFOIL has to
rely on option three, and go through the normal sighting in-
vestigation (Attachment 2) that leads to admissions that

there are a certain percentage of UFO sightings that the Air

Force cannot identify. This approach keeps rar ike Fuller

and the AF oe no erase

- Buy U.S. Savings Bonds

NW 90306 Underwnte Your Country’s M i
Decld:34714841 Page 42 a

3. SAFOI wants some pretigious scientific group to look at
the UFO problem in depth and come up with a position that will
help get the Air Force off the hook. SAFOI expects to gain

a report that will permit them to stand before the most
refnown critics and say that the AF position on UFOs is sound
or action is being taken to make it sound,

6. The questions that SAFOI wants answered are typically as
follows:

a. Is Project Blue Book adequate?

b. Is there or is there not scientific evidence that
UFOs exist?

ec. What can be done to make the Air Force position
credible?

7. SAFOI claims, and rightly so, that they cannot get to

the heart of the public relations problem until they get some
scientific evidence upon which to base their opinion. For this
reason they are very emphatic that they do not want a ''for
motherhood and against sin'’ type of committee report. As far
as SAFOI is concerned the problem is critical.

8. As evidenced by the Fuller article in the Saturday Review
(which is a prestigious news media that is read by highly
influential people both in and out of government), the level
of criticism of the Air Force is getting on a higher and higher
plane. The recent Wall Street Journal article is another ex-
ample of Air Force criticism appearing in a high-class news
media, SAFOI clearly defined the criticality of the problem
when they concluded by saying that none of the current Air
Force problems, such as sonic boom, supersonic transport, and
integration, etc.,, have created the poor public image for the
Air Force that the UFO problem does.

Nak

HAROLD A. STEINER, Major, USAF 3 Atch
Assistant Secretary 1. UFO Report
USAF Scientific Advisory Board 2. FID Form 164

3. Sat Review Article

Docld:34714841 Page 43

REPORT OF MEETINGS OF SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY PANEL
ON UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

January 14 ~- 18, 1953.

se teers ef
, DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS; {”
| - DECLASSTFTED AFTEA 12 YEARS.

DOs BIR. 5230.19

SN ee Te eo i ie ee i

NW 90306 .
Docld:34714841 Page 44 — ae

HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
USAF SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD ,
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE & CHIEF OF STAFF

i aed

NW 90306
Dochd: 34714841 Page 45

<ADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORC..
USAF SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD
| OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE & CHIEF OF STAFF

owe | May 67
MEMO FOR: Co Bev vge a
Atloched iS awn

Uucl lassifred yevsion at
veport of he

the aClA spovsored

Sereat tic deters Panel
ou VFOS DW (4 jhe
Vames Wave veer changed

to groted- the

NW 90306
| Docld:34714841 Page 47

INDEX

PAGE

Purpose ) 1

Part I: History of Meetings of Panel 1

Part II: Comments and- Suggestions of Panel 7.
General , 2
On Lack of Danger 8.
Air Force Reporting System 9
Artifacts of Extraterrestrial Origin 10
Tremonton, Utah, Sighting 11
Potential Related Dangers . 15
Geographic Locations of Unexplained |

Sightings — . 7 15

Instrumentation to Obtain Data | . 16
Radar Problem of Mutual Interference | 18
Unexplained Cosmic Ray Phenomena | 8 19
Educational Program . os . | , 19.
Unofficial Investigating Groups 23
Increase in Number of Sightings - 24 , :

Report of Panel Tab A

List of Personnel Concerned with Meetings | , | Tab B

List of Documentary Evidence Presented | =: fab C

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 48 -

16 February 1953

MEMORANDUM FOR: * oy

FROM =
SUBJECT : Report of Mectings of the. _
” Scientific Advisory Panel on
“Unidentified Flying Objects, January 14 - 18, 1953
- PURPOSE

_ The purpose of this memorandum is to present:
. A brief history of the meetings of the, _ Advisory Panel
On Unident tified Flying Objects (Part I),
b. An unofficial supplement to the official Panel Report:
_ setting forth coments and suggestions of the Panel
Members which they believed were inappropriate for inclusion
in the formal report (Part IT).
PART I: HISTORY OF MEETINGS
After consideration of the subject of "unidentified flying
objects" at the 4 December meeting of the
_ the following action was agreed:
"The - > will:
a. Enlist the services of selected scientists to
review and aporaise the available evidence in the
light of pertinent scientific theories...."

Following the delegation of this action to thei -  _

and »reliminary investigation,
é ee

NW 90306
Docid:34714841 Page 49

Docid:34714841 Page 50

an Advisory Panel of selected scientists was assembled. In
cooperation with the Air Technical Intelligence Center, case
histories of reported sightings and related material were ..
made available for their study and consideration. |

Present at the initial meeting (0930 Wednesday, 14 January)

were: Dr. H. P. Robertson, Dr. — 5 Dr. Thornton

aap

ae

Page, Dr. Samuel A. Goudsmit, —

“, and the writer. Panel Member, Dr. Lloyd V. Berk-

ner, was absent until .Friday afternoon. Messrs. ;

,were present throughout the sessions to familiarize themselves
with the subject, represent the substantive interest.of their
Divisions, and assist in administrative support of the meetings.
(A list of personnel concerned with the meetings is given in
Tab A.
WEDNESDAY MORNING

The — ” opened the meeting, reviewing CTA interest in the’

subject and action taken. This review included the mention of
the. ‘study Group of August 1952 .
culminating in the briefing of the. _— the ATIC November 21
briefing, 4 December _—, consideration, visit to ATIC’ o
Robertson and  y and” _ concern over potential dangers
to national security indirectly related to these sightings:
Mr. . “enumerated these potential dangers. Following this

introductior., Dr. turned the meeting over to

tes . < eo ey os
ane se ig Pe | %
Bo os eget 4

ai a

‘Dr. Robertson as Chairman of the Panel. “Dr. Robertson enumerated -
the evidence available and requested consideration of specific

- peports and letters be taken by cortain individuals present (Tab B). ‘

“For example, case histories involving radar or radar and visual

. sightings were selected for Dr. while reports of Green
Fireball phehomena , nocturnal lights, and suggested programs of
investigation were routed to Dr. Page. Following these remarks,
the motion pictures of the sightings at Tremonton, Utah (2 July 1952)
and Great Falls, Montana (15 August 1950) were shom. The meeting
adjourned at.1200, , , | ,
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON
The second meeting of the Panel opened at 1400. Lt.]

{77 USN, and Mr.”

Laboratory, Anacostia, presented the results of their analyses of

of the USN Photo Interpretation

the films mentioned above. This analysis evoked considerable

discussion as elaborated upon below. Besides Panel members and

re Tae « nines

CIA personnel, Capt. E. J. Ruppelt, Dr.; ne a,

oo N22), and Dr. oT ; |

were present.

Following the Photo Interpretation Lab presentation,
Mr. E, J. Ruppelt spoke for about 40 minutes on ATIC methods of
handling and evaluating reports of sightings and their efforts to

improve the quality of reports. The meeting was adjourned at 1715.

"ig i *
~~ 3 eyo

NW 90306
-— Docld:34714841 Page 51

THURSDAY MORNING
The third and fourth meetings of the Panel were held Thursday,

15 January, commencing at 0900 with a two-hour break for luncheon.
Besides Panel members and CIA personnel, Mr. Ruppelt and Dra
were present for both sessions. In the morning, Mr. Ruppelt con-

a

tinued his briefing on ATIC collection and analysis procedures.

fm A NI

oo A AN NORE RENO MER Na, gE gis gay hese eg $NAME MORNE

The Project STORK support at{_

tee Tio. * * . 2
‘—_ A. number of case histories were dis-

was described by Dr.
cussed in detail and a "y woutcn picture film of seagulls was shown. _
A two hour break for lunch was taken at 1200.

THURSDAY AFTERNOON

es
At 1400 hours _gave a 40-minute briefing of

Project TWINKLE, the investigatory project conducted by the Air
Force Meteorological Research Center at Cambridge, Mass. In this
briefing he pointed out the many problems of setting up and manning
24-hour instrumentation watches of patrol cameras searching for
sightings of U.F.0.'s. | | - , oe

At 245 , |} Joined the meeting with

_ ——F expressed his ¢ support of the Panel's

efforts and stated three personal opinions:
a, That greater use of Air Force intelligence officers in

the field (for follow-up investigation) appeared desirable.

but. that they required thorough briefing.

NW 90306
Docid:347146841 Page 52

be, That vigorous effort should be made to declas sify as many

of the Peports as possible.
c. That some increase in the ATIC section devoted to U.F.0O.
analysis was indicated.
| This meeting was adjourned at 1700.
FRIDAY MORNING
The fifth session of the Panel convened at 0900 with the same
personnel present as enumerated for Thursday (with the exception

a

of

ser nens ca RE,

rs

From 0900 ~ 1000 there was general discussion and study of
reference material. Also,” __—iread a prepared paper making
certain observations and conclusions. At 1000 gave a
briefing on his fifteen months experience in Washington as Project
Officer for U.F.0.'s and his personal conclusions. There was
considerable discussion of individual case histories of sightings

i ne ood

to which he referred. Following, _- presentation, a
number of additional case histories were examined and discussed .
with Messrs. ~ Ruppelt, and’ The meeting adjourned
at 1200 for luncheon. .
FRIDAY AFTERNOON

This session opened at 1400. Besides Panel members and CIA |
personnel, Dr. ——swas present. Dr. Lloyd V. Berkner, as Panel

Member, was present at this meeting for the first time. Progress

of the méetings was reviewed by the Panel Chairman and tentative

NW 90306
Docid:34714841 Page 53

conclusions reached. A general. discussion followed and tentative
"recommendations considered. It was agreed that the Chairman should .

draft a report of the Panel to that evening for review by the
Panel the next morning. The meeting adjourned at 1715.
SATURDAY MORNING

At 0945 the Chairman opened the seventh session and submitted
a rough draft of the Panel. Report to the members. This draft had |
been reviewed and approved earlier by Dr. Berkner. The next taro
and one-half hours were consumed in discussion and revision of the
draft. At 1100 the’ ~~ joined the meeting and reported that he
had shown and discussed a copy of the initial rough draft to
the Director of Intelligence, USAF, whose reaction was favorable. At
1200 the meeting was adjourned. |
SATURDAY AFTERNOON

At 1400 the eighth and final meeting of the Panel was opened.
Discussion and rewording of certain sentences of the Report occupied
the first hours. (A copy of the final report is appended as Tab C.) ;
This was followed oy a review of work accomplished by the Panel
and restatement of individual Panel Member's opinions and suggestions
on details that were felt inappropriate for inclusion in the formal
report. It was agreed that the writer would incorporate these
comments in an internal report to the The material below

represents this information.

NW 90306
Mecid 347148491 Pane S54

( IT: COMMENTS AND SUGGESTIONS OF PANEL

csiantnapsoner RIES oats in aE NNR

. Ju ooh

GENERAL

The Panel Members were impressed (as have been others, includ-
ing ~~ personnel) in the lack of sound cata in the great majority
of case histories; also, in the lack of speedy follow-up due primarily

to the modest size and limited facilities of the ATIC section concerned.

Among the case histories of significant sightings discussed in detail

were the following: | |
Bellefontaine, Ohio (1 August 1952); Tremonton, Utah (2 July 1952);
Great Falls, Montana (15 August 1950); Yaak, Montana (1 September
1952); Washington, D. C. area (19 July 1952); and Haneda A.F.B.,
Japan (5 August 1952), Port Huron, Michigan (29 July 1952); and
Presque Isle, Maine (10 October 1952). |
After review and discussion of these cases (and about 15 others,

— ERAS pe RUNES NNN IANA RRO NSS ERENT CEVA SNe GEE GRUB NIRANN

in less detail), the Panel concluded that reasonable explanations

AEE OAIIION CEN a

OO rrCOr:CiCaRSCSC“CRYRRRRKRKRKRRNNjres—«i«s(C(i‘a‘syC ANE

could be suggested for most Sightings and “by ded

onan “en Se AE

on and scientific

csioasi sneicceeNRaR TNR ART NIERO A ANCE —

method it could be induced (given additional data) that other cases .

ee Sen —  tr:”~—C

LANES ENN

might be explained in a similar

CMON

nner" . The Panel pointed out that

Se a

because of the brevity of some sightings (e.g. 2-3 seconds) and the

inability of the witnesses to express themselves clearly (semantics)

Kpected for every case

oT EERO AeeN eRe RN ERC EIRENE

that conclusive explanations could: not be

se enn cieet SCOR TIE MEARE NN Siti ec a cee mempe gue tN KATE TANS RE

reported. Furthermore, ‘it was considered that, normally, it would

be a great waste of effort to try to solve most of the sightings,
unless such action would benefit a training and educational program

(see below). The writings of Charles Fort were referenced to show

Merci TATA Pane 55

that "strange things in the sky" had been recorded for hundreds of

years. It appeared obvious that there was no single explanation

for a majority of the things seen. The presence of radar and astro~

-nomical specialists on the Panel proved of value at once in their

confident recognition of phenomena related to their fieids. It was
apparent that specialists in such additional fields as psychology, .
meteorology, aerddynamics, ornithology and military air operations

would extend the ability of the Panel to recognize many more cate-

ON LACK OF DANGER

The Panel concluded unanimously that there was n

Ce OOO

a direct threat to national security in the objects sighted.
Instances of "Foo Fighters" were cited. These were unexplained
phenomena sighted by aircraft pilots during World War II in both
European and Far Rast theaters of operation wherein "balls of light"
would fly near or with the aircraft and maneuver rapidly. They were
believed to be electrostatic (similar to St. Elmo's fire) or electro-
magnetic phenomena or possibly light reflections from ice crystals
in the air, but their exact cause or nature was never defined. Both
Robertson and,” had been concerned in the investigation of
these phenomena, but David T. Griggs (Professor of Geophysics at

the University of California at Los Angeles) is believed to have

been the most knowledgeable person on this subject. If the term

"flying saucers" had been popular in 1943 - 1945, these objects would

Docld:34714841 Page 56

NW 90306

have been so labeled. It was interesting that in at least two

cases reviewed that the object Sighted was categorized by Robertson
and{_—~=—ésS:: probably "Foo Fighters", to date unexplained but not
dangerous; they were not happy thus to dismiss the sightinzss by |

calling them names. It was their feeling that these phenomena are

not beyond the domain of present knowledge of physical sciences, however.
ATR FORCE REPORTING SYSTEM |

It was the Panel's opinion that some of the Air Force concern

over U.F.0.'s (notwithstanding Air Defense Command anxiety over fast

radar tracks) was probably caused by public pressure. The result —

today is that the Air. Force has.instituted a fine channel for,

thee UE SS
Ue eNO? —_ a

hinge a

BO Ce

one sees in the sky and

ee saeee

receiving reports of nearly

ee ae

fails to understand. This has been particularly encouraged in popu-

OPA NOE ERC CRERENR ARORA NG ents

lar articles on this and other subjects, such as space travel and

science fiction. The result is the mass receipt of low-grade reports

which tend to overload channels of communication with material quite

irrelevant to hostile objects that might some day appear. The Panel

agreed generally that this 1 mass of poor-quality reports containing

sine

little, if any, scientific data was of no value. Quite the opposite,

OOO

rc r:~—C«CO)CSCCsiC(‘CC(CiCisé;ésC

it was possibly dangerous in having a military service foster public
concern in "nocturnal meandering lights". The implication being,
since the interested agency was military, that these objects were
or might be potential direct threats to national security. ‘Accord- -
ingly, the seed for deemphasization made itself apparent. Comments ,

on a possible educational program are emu-erated below.

Docld:34714841 Page 45/ .

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 58 . ,

It was the opinion of Dr. Robertson that the "saucer" problem
had been found to be different in nature from the detection and
investigation of German V-1 and V-2 guides. missiles prior to their
operational use in World War II, In this 1943-1944 intelligence
operation (GROSSBOW) , there was excellent intelligence and by June
1944 there was material evidence of the existence of "hardware" -
obtained from crashed vehicles in Sweden. This evidence gave the

investigating team a basis upon which to operate. The absence of

“hardware”, resulting from unexplained U. F. O. sightings lends a “will-

GELS
— Lo. MNO

of-the wisp" nature to the ATIC problem.

SS rrrrsiCsC#COCO. CC

The results of their investi-
gation, to date, strongly indicate that no evidence of hostile act
or danger exists. Furthermore, the current reporting system would
have little value in the case of detection of enemy attack by coyven~
tional aircraft or guided missiles; under ‘such conditions "hardware"
would be available almost at once.
ARTIFACTS OF EXTRATERRESTRIAL ORIGIN

It was interesting to note that none of the members of the
Panel were loath to accept that this earth might be visited by extra-
terrestrial intelligent beings of some sort, some day. What they did
not find was any evidence that related the objects sighted to space
travelers. Mr. in his presentation, showed how he had elim-
inated each of the known and probable causes of sightings leaving him
"extra-terrestrial" as the only one remaining in many cases. m— i's

background as an aeronautical engineer and technical intelligence

NW 90306
Docid:34714841 Page 59

officer (Project Officer, BLUEBOOK for 15, months) could not be
slighted. However, the Panel could not accept any of the cases
cited by him because they were raw, unevaluated reports.
Terrestrial explanations of the sightings were suggested in some
cases and in others the time of sighting was so short as to cause
suspicion of visual impressions. It was noted by Dr. Goudsmit and
others that extraterrestrial artifacts, if they did exist, are no
cause for alarm; rather, they are in the realm of natural phenomena
subject to scientific study, just as cosmic rays were at the time
of their discovery 20 to 30 years ago. This was an attitude in
which Dr. Robertson did not concur, as he felt that such artifacts
would be of immediate and great concern not only to the U. S. but
to all countries. (Nothing like a common threat to unite peoples!)
Dr. Page noted that present astronomical knowledge of the solar
system makes the existence of intelligent beings (as we know the

term) elsewhere than on the earth extremely unlikely, and the

concentration of their attention by any controllable means confined -

aE cK EATERS IIR ew Cow

to any one conti ent of the earth

EO NAINE Mii ian ey ORANGES

TREMONTON, UTAH, STGHTING

This case was considered significant because of the excellent
documentary evidence in the form of Kodachrome motion picture films .
(about 1600 frames). The Panel studied these films, the case history,
ATIC's interpretation, and received a briefing by representatives of
the USN Photo Interpretation Laboratory on their analysis of the ~

film. This ‘team had expended (at Air Foree request) approximately

es ee Pe AY ee
ee ae te «

1000 man-hours of professional and sub-professional time in the
preparation of graph plots of individual frames of the film, show-

ing apparent and relative motion of objects and variation in their

light intensity. It was the opinion of the PAIL. representatives
that the objects sighted were not birds, balloons or aircraft,
were "not reflections because there was no blinking while passing
through 60° of arc" and were, therefore, "self-luminous". Plots of
motion and variation in light intensity of the objects were dis-
played. While the Panel Members were impressed by the evident
enthusiasm, industry and extent of effort of the P.I.L. team, they
could not accept the conclusions reached. Some of the reasons for
this were as follows:
ae A semi-spherical object can readily produce a reflection
of sunlight without "blinking" through 60° of are travel.
b. Although no data was available on the "albedo" of birds or
polyethylene balloons in bright sunlight, the apparent ,
motions , sizes and brightnesses of the objects were
considered strongly to suggest birds, particularly after
the Panel viewed a short film showing high reflectivity
of seagulls in bright sunlight. ~
c. P.I.L, description of the objects sighted as "circular,
bluish-white" in color would be expected in cases of
specular reflections of sunlight from convex surfaces where

the brilliance of the reflection would obscure other portions

of the object.

NW 90306
. Docld:34714841 Page 60

NW 90306

im, OT ESI OR EY

2. re
ace a

Objects in the Great Falls case were believed to have

probably been aircraft, and the bright lights such reflections.
There was no valid reason for the attempt to relate the objects
in the Tremonton sighting to those in the Great Falls sight-
ing. This may have been due to misunderstanding in their
directive. The objects in the Great Falls sighting are
strongly suspected of being reflections of aircraft known to
have been in the area.

The intensity change in the Tremonton lights was too great

for acceptance of the P.I.L. hypothesis that the apparent
motion and changing intensity of the lights indicated extremely
high speed in small orbital paths.

Apparent lack of guidance of investigators by those familiar

with U.F.0O. reports and explanations.

Analysis of light intensity of objects made from duplicate

rather than original film. The original film was noted to
have a much lighter background (affecting relative brightness

of object) and the objects appeared much less bright.

“Method of obtaining data of light intensity appeared faulty

because of unsuitability of equipment and questionable
assumptions in making averages of readings.

No data had been obtained on the sensitivity of Kodachrome
film to light of various intensities using the same camera

type at the same lens openings.

Docld:34714841 Page 61 ;

NW 90306
Docld:34714841

k. Hand "jitter" frequencies (obtainable tron early part « of
Tremonton film) were not removed from the plots of the
"single pass plots" at the end of the film.
The Panel believed strongly that the data available on this
sighting was sufficient for positive identification if further data
is obtained by photographing polyethylene "pillow" balloons released
near the site under similar weather conditions, checking bird flight
and reflection characteristics with competent ornithologists and’
calewlating apparent "G" forces acting upon objects from their apparent
tracks. It was concluded that the results of such tests would prob-
ably lead to creditable explanations of value in an educational or
training program. However, the Panel noted that the cost in technical
manpower effort required to follow up and explain every one of the
thousand or more reports received through channels each year (1,900 in>
1952) could not be justified. It was felt that there will always be
sightings, for which complete data is lacking, that can only be
explained with disproportionate effort and with a long time delay, if
at all. The long delay in explaining a sighting tends to eliminate +

any intelligence value. The educational or training program should

GAs
— ea cRNA AA es steaninincissssoa LOO.

have” as a _major purpose the elimination of popular feeling that every

documented. In other words, the burden o of £ proof is on the sighter, ;

- ee

Page 62

5

sa Tact

TT s " “se . " hol bs # 8. 3 x

rhe Panel Members were in agreement with__ opinion that,
although evidence of any direct threat from these sightings was
wholly lacking, related dangers might well exist resulting from:

a. Misidentification of actual enemy artifacts by defense

personnel. °
b. Overloading of emergency reporting channels with "false"
information ("noise to signal ratio" analogy - Berkner).
e. Subjectivity of public to mass hysteria and greater. vul-
nerability to possible enemy psychological warfare.
Although not the concern of CIA, the first two of these problems
may seriously affect the Air Defense intelligence system, and should
be studied by experts, possibly under ADC. If U.F.0.'s become dis~.
credited in a reaction to the "flying saucer"! seare, or if report |
ing channels are saturated with false and poorly documented reports, |
our capability of detecting hostile activity will be reduced. :
Dr. Page noted that more competent screening or filtering of reported é

sightings at or near the source is required, and that this can best
be accomplished by an educational program. L
GEOGRAPHIC LOCATIONS OF UNEXPLAINED SIGHTINGS |

The map prepared by ATIC showing geographic locations of officially

reported unexplained sightings (1952 only) was examined by the Panel.

This map showed clusters in certain strategic areas such as Los Alamos.

his might be explained on the basis of 24-hour watchful guard and

ee ed

st 4

NW 90306 | :
Docld:34714841 Page 63 —

NW 90306

‘curement of these cameras was partly the result of public pressure

awareness of security measures near such locations. On the other
hand, there had been no sightings in the vicinity of sensitive
related AE establishments while there were occasionally multiple
eases of unexplained sightings in non-strategic areas. Furthermore,
there appeared to be no logical relationship to population centers.
The Panel could find no ready explanation for these clusters. It
was noted, however, that if terrestrial artifacts were to be observed
it would be likely that they would be seen first near foreign areas
rather than central U.S.
INSTRUMENTATION TO OBTAIN DATA

~The Panel was of the opinion that the present ATIC program to
place 100 inexpensive 35 mm. stereo cameras in the hands of various
airport control tower operators would probably produce little valu-
able data related to U.F.0.'s. However, it was recognized that
such action would tend to allay public concern in the subject until
an educational program had taken effect. It was believed that pro-
in July 1952. With the poor results of the year-long Project
TWINKLE program of 24-hours instrumentation watch (two frames of
film showing nothing distinguishable), a widespread program of sky-
watching would not be expected to yield much direct data of value.

There was considerable discussion of a possible "sky patrol" by

amateur astronomers ____s and:- by wide-angle cameras (Page). Dr. Page

and Dr. Robertson pointed out that at present a considerable fraction

Docid:34714841 Page 64

Docld:34714841 Page 65

of the sky is now-~-and has been for many years-under surveillance

every clear night in several meteor and aurora observing programs as

well.as sky mapping programs at the various locations listed below.

Although the attention of these astronomers is largely directed
toward identified rather than unidentified objects, no case of any
striking unidentified object is known to Dr. Page or Dre Such
an object would most certainly be reported if found on patrol plates.
A case was cited where an astronomer refused to interrupt his
exposure. in order to photograph an alleged sighting in a different
part of the sky. This led Dr. “* to say that, if a program of
watching could be an adjunct of planned astronomical programs, little
cost would be involved and that the trained astronomical personnel
might photograph a sighting of an unidentified object.
The Location of some of these programs and their directors are
believed to be:
a. Harvard University, Cambridge and New Mexico (meteor patrol)~-
Whipple.
b. Yerkes Observatory, University of Chicago and Fort'Davis, Texas
(several programs )--Meinel (auroras), Kuiper’ (asteroids),
Morgan (wide angle camera).
ce. University of Alaska, Fairbanks (aurorae)~-Elvey
d. Dominion Observatory, Ottawa (meteors )--Millman

-e. Palomar Observatory, California (sky map)--Minkowski

f. Lick Observatory, California (sky map)--Shane

NW 90306

It was agreed by the Panel that no governnent.-sponsored program
of optical nation-wide sky patrol is worthwhile at the present time,
and that the encouragement of amateur astronomers to undertake such
a program might have: the adverse effect of over-omphasiging "flying
saucer" stories in the public mind. However, the issue of radar scope |
cameras for recording peculiar radar echoes would serve several pur~
poses, including the better understanding of radar interference as
well as identification of U.F.0O,' |
RADAR PROBLEM OF MUTUAL INTERFERENCE | | °

‘This characteristic problem of radar operation wherein the pulse
signal (of approximately the same frequency) from station A may be

picked up on the screen of station B and show as a high-speed track

or series of dots was recognized to have probably caused a number of

U.F.O. reports. This problem was underlined by information received

indicating ADC concern in solving this problem of signal identification.

‘before service use of very high-speed aircraft or guided missiles

(1955-1956). Dr. Berkner believed that one answer to this problem
was the use of a "doppler filter" in the receiving circuit. Dr. : _
suggested that the problem might be better solved by the use of a
"controlled jitter" wherein the operator receiving "very fast tracks"
(on the order of 1000- 10,000 m.p.h.) would operate a circuit which
would alter slightly his station's pulse frequency rate. If the signal

received on the screen had been caused by mutual interference with

another station, the track would now show itself at a different distance

Docld:34714841 Page 66

from the center of the screen, if i still appeared at all. Dr.
felt such a technical solution was simpler and would cost much less than
a “doppler filter". | }
- UNEXPLATNED cosMrc RAY PHENOMENA
) Two reported cases were examined: one at Palomar Mountain, California,
in October 1949, when cosmic ray counters went "off scale for a few seconds",
apparently while a "V" of flying saucers was observed visually; and two, a
series of observations by the "Los Alamos Bird Watchers Association" from
August 1950 to January 1951, when cosmic ray coincidence counters behaved
queerly. Circuit diagrams and records were available for the latter, and
>» Dr. ‘was able quickly to point out that the recorded data were
undoubtedly due to instrumental effects that would have been recognized
as such by more experienced observers. , ,
The implication that radioactive effects were correlated with
unidentified flying objects in these two cases was, therefore, rejected
by the Panel. , 7
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM
The Panel's concept of a broad educational program integrating
efforts of all concerned agencies was that it should have two major
aims: training and “debunking". |
The training aim would result in proper recognition of unusually .
illuminated objects (e.g., balloons, aircraft reflections) as well as
natural phenomena (meteors, fireballs, mirages, noctilucent clouds).

Both visual and radar recognition are concerned. There would be many

NW 90306 . reall Mee Bay | .
Doecid:34714841 Page 6f

NW 90306

levels in such education from enlisted personnel to command and research
personnel, Relative emphasis and degree of explanation of different
programs would correspond to the categories of duty (e.g., radar operators;
pilots; control tower operators; Ground Observer Corps personnel; ana
officers and enlisted men in other categories.) This training should

a

result in a marked reduction in reports. caused by misidentification

and resultant confusion, :

The "debunking" aim would result in reduction in public interest

in "flying saucers" which today evokes a strong psychological reaction.

This education could be accomplished by mass media such as television,

motion pictures, and popular articles. Basis of such education would
be actual case histories which had been puzzling at first but later
explained. As in the case of conjuring tricks, there is much less
stimulation if the "secret" is known. Such a phogram should tend to
reduce the current gullibility of the public and consequently their
susceptibility to clever hostile propaganda. The Panel noted that the
general absence of Russian propaganda based on a subject with so many
obvious possibilities for exploitation might indicate a possible Russian
official policy. , |

Members of the Panel had various suggestions related to the plan-
ning of such an educational program. It was felt strongly that
psychologists familiar with mass psychology should advise on the nature ~

and extent of the program. In this connection, Dr. Hadley Cantril

(Princeton University) was suggested. Cantril authored "Invasion from

WBS ERR Seb g oo

- > weg Me ea sarees
cad” taawsdeed Mabe we ot as

Docid:34714841 Page 63

an ‘ cos rn re nme”
war Non? Lb Ab "sem

Mars," (a study in the psychology of panic, written about the famous’
Orson Welles radio broadcast in 1938) and has since performed advanced
laboratory studies in the field of perception. The names of Don Marquis

(University of Michigan) and Lee Rosten were mentioned as possibly

suitable as copsultant psychologists. Also, someone familiar with
mass communications techniques, perhaps an advertising expert, would be
helpful. Arthur Godfrey was mentioned as possibly a valuable channel
of comminication reaching a mass audience of certain levels. Dr. Berkner .
suggested the U. S. Navy (ONR) Special Devices Center, Sands Point, L. I.,
as a potentially valuable organization to assist in such an educational
program. The teaching techniques used by this agency for aircraft
identification during the past war was cited as an example of a similar
educational task. The Jam Handy Co. which mde World War IIT training
films (motion picture and slide strips) was also suggested, as well as
Walt Disney, Inc. animated cartoons. Dr. suggested that the
amateur astronomers in the U. S. might be a potential source of enthusi-
astic talent "to spread the gospel". It was believed that business
elubs, high schools, colleges, and television stations would all be
pleased to cooperate in the. showing of documentary type motion pictures
if prepared in an interesting manner. The use of true cases showing
first the "mystery" and then the "explanation" would be foreeful.
Po plan and execute such a program, the Panel believed was no
mean task. The current investigatory group at ATIC would, of necessity,

have to be closely integrated for support with respect to not only the

Decid:34714841 Page 69

historical cases but the current ones. Recent cases are probably much
more susceptible to explanation than older énes} first, because of -
‘ATIC's experience and, secondly, their knowledge of most plausible
explanations. The Panel believed that some expansion of the ATIC effort
would eérteinly be required to support such a program. It was believed ,
inappropriate to state exactly how large a Table of Organization would
be required. Captain Ruppelt of ATIC unofficially proposed, for purposes |
of shallyzing and evaluating reports:

a An analysts" panel of four officers

be Four officer investigators

c. A briefing officer

ds An ADC liaison officer

e. A weather and balloon data officer

fe An astronomical consultant

ge A group Leader, with administrative assistant, file clerks and

| stenographers. | | 7

This propesal met with generally favorable Gétmment.. The Panel
believed that, with ATIC's support, the educational program of “train-—
ing and debunking" outldned above might be required for a minimum of
one and one-half to two years, At the end of this time, the dangers
related to "flying saucers" should have been greatly reduced if not
eliminated. coupsration from ottier military services and agencies
concerned (e.g-, Federal Civil Defense Administration) would be a
necessity. In investigating significant cases (such as the Trementon,

Utah, sighting), controlled experiments might be ‘required. An example

NW 90306
Docld:34714841 Page 70

3

Ith

would be the photographing of "pillow balloons" at different distances

seve

under similar weather conditions at the site.

The help of one or two psychologists and writers and a subcontractor
to produce training films would be necessary in addition. The Panel
considered that ATIC's efforts, temporarily expanded as necessary,
could be most useful in implementing any action taken as a result of
its recomendations. Experience and records in arte would be of value
in both the public educational and service training program envisaged.
Dr. Robertson at least was of the opinion that after public gullibility
lessened and the service organizations, such as ADC, had been trained
to sift out the more readily explained spurious sightings, there would
still be a role for a very modest-sized ATIC section to cope with the
residuum of items of possible scientific intelligence value. This

# section should concentrate on energetically following up (perhaps on

COI

SO

the advice of qualified Air ‘Force Scientific Advisory Board members )

tho se ce cases which seemed to indicate the evidence of unconventional
enemy artifacts. Reports of such artifacts would be expected to
arise mainly from Western outposts in far closer proximity to the
Tron Curtain than Lubbock, Texas!
UNOFFICTAL INVESTIGATING GROUPS

The Panel took cognizance of the existence of such groups as the
"Civilian Flying Saucer Investigators" (Los Angeles) and the "Aerial

Phenomena Research Organization (Wisconsin)". It was believed that

such organizations should be watched because of their potentially

NW 90306 he
Docld:34714641 Page 71 . .

REPORT OF THE SCIENTIFIC PANEL
ON ,
UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

lL. Pursuant to the request

__ the. undersigned Panel of Scientific Consultants has met to
evaluate any possible threat to national security posed by Unidentified
Flying Objects ("Flying Saucers"), and to make recommendations thereon.
The Panel has received the evidence as presented by cognizant intelli-
gence agencies, primarily the Air Technical Intelligence Center, and has
reviewed a selection of the best documented incidents. ,
2. Asa result. of its considerations, the Panel concludes:
a. -That the evidence presented on Unidentified Flying

Objects shows no indication that these phenomena constitute

a direct physical threat to national security.
We firmly believe that there is no residuum of cases which indicates
phenomena which are attributable to foreign artifacts capable of hostile ;
acts, and that there is no evidence that the phenomena indicates a need
for the revision of current scientific concepts.

3. The Panel further concludes:

a.» That the continued emphasis on the reporting of

these phenomena does, in these parlous times, result in a

threat to the orderly functioning of the protective organs

of the body politic.
We cite as examples the clogging of channels of communication by irrelevant

reports, the danger of being led by continued false alarms to ignore real

Phas PSD Racal
ro <

NW 90306
. Docld:34714841 Page 73

/ fs 5 fy
THE-A
CFIA

-indications of hostile action, and the cultivation of a morbid national

psychology in which skillful hostile propaganda could induce hysterical
behavior and harmful distrust of duly constituted authority.
4%. In order most effectively to strengthen tho national facilities
for the’timely recognition and the appropriate handling of true indications ©
of hostile action, and to minimize the concomitent dangers alluded to
above, the Panel recommends :
a. That the national security agencies take immediate steps
to strip the Unidentified Flying Objects of the special status they |
| have been given and the ena of mystery they have unfortunately :
acquired " ,
b. That the national security agencies institute policies
on intelligence, training, and public education designed to prepare
the material defenses and the morale of the country to recognize
most promptly and to react most effectively to true indications
of hostile intent or action. , ..
We suggest that these ains may be achieved by an integrated program
designed to reassure the public of the total lack of evidence of inimical
forces behind the phenomena, to train personnel to recognize and reject
false indications quickly and effectively, and to strengthen regular
channels for the evaluation of and prompt reaction to true indications

of hostile measures.

/s/ H. P. Robertson, Chairman . [s/ Lloyd V. Berkner

California Institute of Technology _ Associated Universities, Inc.
/s/ Leis W. Alvarez , s/_ S.A. Goudsmit
University of ‘sity of California Brookhaven National Laboratories

S Thornton Page

Johns Hopkins University

NW 90306
Declhd:34714841 Page f4

Aa riper
re fi

SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY PANEL ON

UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

14 - 17 January 1953

‘EVIDENCE PRESENTED

1 Seventy-five case histories of sightings 1951 - - 1952 (selected by
ATIC as those best documented).

2. ATIC Status and Progress Reports of Project GRUDGE and Project
BLUE BOOK (code names for ATIC study of subject).

3. Progress ress Reports of Project STORK ss
ieontract work supporting ATIC).

4, Summary Report of Sightings at Holloman Air Force Base, New Mexico.

5. Report of USAF Research Center, Cambridge, Mass., Investigation of
"Green Fireball" Phenomena (Project TWINKLE).

6. Outline of Investigation of U.F.0.'s Proposed by Kirtland Air Force
Base (Project POUNCE).

7+ Motion Picture Films of sightings at Tremonton, Utah, 2 July 1952 |
and Great Falls, Montana, August 1950.

8. Summary Report of 89 selected cases of sightings of various
categories (Formations, Blinking Lights, Hovering, etc.). .

9. Draft of menuel: “How to Make a FLYOBRPI", prepared at ATIC.

10, Chart Showing Plot of Geographic Location of Unexplained Sightings
in the United States during 1952.

ll. Chart Showing Balloon Launching Sites in the United States.

12. Charts Showing Selected Actual Balloon Flight Paths and Relation
to Reported Sightings.

13. Charts Showing Frequency of Reports of Sightings, 1948°~ 1952.
14, Charts Showing Categories of Explanations of Sightings. —

15. Kodachrome Transparencies of Polyethylene Film Balloons in Bright
Sunlight. Showing High Reflectivity.

NW 90206
Docld:34714841 Page f5

en ee

NW 90306

Docld:34714841 Page 76

Motion picture of seagulls in. bright sunlight showing high reflectivity.
Intelligence Reports Relating to U.S. S.R. Interest in U. S. Sightings.

Samples of Official USAF Reporting Forme and Copies of Pertinent
Air Force, Army and Navy Orders Relating to Subject.

Sample Polyethylene "Pillow" Balloon (54 inches square).

"Variations in Radar Coverage", JANP 101 (Manual illustrating unusual
operating characteristics of Service radar).

Miscellaneous official letters and foreign intelligence reports
dealing with subject.

Copies of popular published works dealing with subject (articles
in periodicals, newspaper clippings and books).

_ REPORT CF THE SCIENTIFIC —
: ON
_ UNIDENTIFIED FIY ING BIECTS

Y January 1993

1. The wulereigned Panel of Scientific Consultants has met at
the request of the Government to evaluate any possible threat to
national security posed by Unidentified Flying Objects ("Flying
Saucers"), and to make recommendation: The Panel has received the
evidence as presented by cognizant Governmental agencies, primarily

the United States Air Force, and has meviewed a selection: of the —
best documented incidents. _—-

2 As a result of its considerations, the Pane} concludes:

That the evidence presented on Unidentified Flying Se
Objects shows no indication that these phenomena constitute.
a direct. physical threat to national, security.

We firmly believe that there is no pes iduils of cases which indicates
phenomena which are attributable to foreign artifacts capable of |
hostile acts, and “that there is no evidence that the phenomena ©
indicate a need for the revision of current scientific concepts.

Lg) In the tignt of this conelusion, the Panel reccamends!

That the national security agencies take immediate steps
to strip the Unidentified Flying Objects of the special’ sta tus
they have been given and the aura & ae maf have =
Mater sone ey acquired.

We suggest that this aim may be ectloved by an shegratea ¢ program
_ Gesigned to reassure the public of the total lack of evidence of
Jnteicas, Torces behind me reser A os

Lloyd V. Berkner
Associated Vaiveratiies, Inc.

Bers Robertson Chairman _ ee
oe Ba As Goudemtt
" Brookhaven Wational Laboratories”

/ of : ae Page
ohn Hopkins University .