STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
FOR THE
ADVANCED AEROSPACE WEAPON SYSTEM APPLICATIONS PROGRAM
PAN: #

1. BACKGROUND: The Acquisition Support Division (DWO-3) of the Defense Intelligence
Agency (DIA) has the responsibility to provide guidance and oversight to the Department of
Defense (DoD) acquisition process along with leveraging the DoD Intelligence Community to
coordinate, produce and maintain projections of the future threat environment in which U.S. air,
naval, ground, spacc, missile defense and information systems operate. In order to accurately
assess the foreign threat to U.S. weapon systems, a complete as possible understanding of potential
breakthrough technology applications employed in future acrospace weapon systems must be
obtained.

2. OBJECTIVE: One aspect of the future threat environment involves advanced aerospace
weapon system applications. The objective of this program is to understand the physics and
engineering of these applications as they apply to the foreign threat out to the far term, i.e., from
now through the year 2050. Primary focus is on breakthrough technologies and applications that
create discontinuities in currently evolving technology trends. The focus is not on extrapolations
of current aerospace technology. The proposal shall describe a technical approach which
discusses how the breakthrough technologies and applications listed below would be studied
and include proposed key personnel that have experience in those areas.

3. REQUIREMENTS:

a) The contractor shall complete advanced aerospace weapon system technical studies in the
following areas:

1. lift

2. propulsion

3. control

4. power generation

5. spatial/temporal translation

6. materials

7. configuration, structure

8. signature reduction (optical, infrared.
radiofrequency, acoustic)

9. human interface

10. human effects

11, armament (RF and DEW)

12. other peripheral areas in support of (1-11)

b) It is expected that numerous experts with extensive experience (minimum of 10 years) in
breakthrough aerospace research and development will be required to meet the demands of
the above program. The offeror should clearly identify their approach to obtaining the
services of and their utilization of these scientific and technical experts. Management
personnel must include a lead integrator to oversee the work of the various analytical teams, and to
integrate their findings into final coherent products. At least one member of cach analytical team
must have a PhD, although that member can be on several teams. A technical plan for
conducting the advanced aerospace weapon system studies described above must be included
in the offeror’s proposal.

(c) Offeror must be able to produce integrated finished assessments in each of the above
advanced aerospace weapon system technical areas. Finished reports and presentations,
while highly analytical and technical, must be in a format suitable for dissemination at the
highest levels of the federal government. In addition to the main technical section of each
assessment, an executive summary utilizing clearly understandable (non-technical)
language must also be contained in each report.

(d) To assess relevant experience, offerors shall submit at least three (3) references, including a
POC name and phone number, with a brief description of the business relationship with the
Government or other corporations. In addition, offerors should provide examples, conducted
within the past 7 years, of having performed, as a prime contractor, the analysis. design,
construction, and flight testing of high performance aircraft and/or satellites. Success in this
program is dependent upon this capability and experience.

4. PLACE OF PERFORMANCE: The work under this contract shall be performed at the
Contractor's facility.

5S. SECURITY REQUIREMENT: Contractor company and personnel proposed shall be
clearable and able to obtain a security and facility clearance upon award of the contract. All
requirements specified in this SOO may be based on materials classified at or below Top Secret with
access to Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/ SCI). The contractor shall comply with the terms
and conditions of the DD-254 BEFORE initiating any classified cffort. The contractor shall notify the
COR and Contracting Officer immediately upon the determination that higher classification
requirements exist in order to accomplish the specified requirements. The contractor shall ensure that
each individual assigned to this contract shall be identificd, cleared, and approved through DIA/DAC-3
PRIOR to granting that individual access to, or authority to generate classified information in
association with this effort.

5.1. Contractor shall provide a work facility (including unclassified information systems) with a
Top Secret Facility Clearance granted by the Defense Security Service (DSS). Cleared facilities are
not required at contract inception. Offcror must provide personnel eligible for a Top Scerct
clearance level with further eligibility for SCI access. At least two personnel cleared at the Secret
level are required at contract inception.

6. GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY/EQUIPMENT: The Government will
provide the contractor access to computers and peripherals such as printers as the Government
deems necessary to access and produce classified information. These computers and peripherals
remain the property of the Government.

7, GOVERNMENT FURNISHED INFORMATION/DATA: Data required by the contractor
to fulfill the terms of this contract shall be requested from the Government Project Lead (GPL).
A good faith effort will be made to fulfill any legitimate request (as assessed by the GPI.),
however, the responsibility to collect information and data necessary for the conduct of this
effort remains with the contractor. Any classified data provided by the Government in support of
this contract will remain the property of the Government and will be returned to the government
not more than 30 days after contract conclusion.

8. CONTRACTOR ACQUIRED / GOVERNMENT OWNED PROPERTY:

Any accountable property acquired by the contractor with government funds during the
execution of this contract shall become government owned property. The contractor shall obtain
written permission from the CO or Contracting Officer Representative (COR) prior to any
purchase of real property with government funds. The contractor shall establish and maintain an
inventory of all such property. This property must be inventoried and returned to the
government not more than 60 days after the end of the contract.

9. EQUIPMENT LEASE OR PURCHASE:
The purchase of equipment is preferred, however, it may be more advantageous to the
government to lease in certain circumstances. When it is contemplated a lease would be more
advantageous to the government, contractor shall furnish the following information to the COR
so the government can determine the best solution:

1. Estimated length of time the equipment will be used and the extent of use within
that period
Financial and operating advantages of alternative types and makes of equipment
Cumulative rental payments for the estimated period of use
Net purchase price
Transportation and installation costs
Maintenance and other service costs

DAW wh

10. TRAVEL: It is anticipated that travel will be required for this contract. The Government will
pay up to the rates specified in the government Fedcral Travel Regulations for travel destination.
Travel reservations will be made by the contractor and will be reimbursed for actual costs only,
with supporting documentation/reccipts attached to the invoice.

1i. DELIVERABLES: ‘the contractor shall prepare the following deliverables:
a. Status Reports - monthly reports outlining accomplishments, milestones, and work in progress.

b. Project Management Plan — For each technical area, the team lead shall submit, at the 60 day point, an
overview paper identifying the scope of the final report; a Plan of Action and Milestones, and the composition
of the analytical team.

c. Research Reports For each technical arca, a comprehensive report and briefing forecasting potential
advancements and their impact is to be submitted to the GPL by the end of the tenth month. An executive
version of each report should also be submitted. Format will be specified by the GPL.

d. Integrated Threat Assessment — A final report and briefing that assesses the foreign threat from
advanced acrospace platforms incorporating the technologies discussed in the individual research reports will be

LoS]

AAP Person
1

provided to the GPL at the end of the period of performance. An executive version of the report should also be
submitted. Format will be specified by the GPL.

e. Resumes - The Contractor shall submit resumes of all key personnel proposed for this effort.
The Government reserves the right to review resumes and qualifications prior to acceptance of
individuals for assignment.

12, PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE: The term of this contract shall is anticipated to be 5 years
which consists of a base year of 12 months from date of award plus four (4) 12 month option
years,

13. CONTRACT TYPE: The contract shall be firm fixed priced (FFP).

14. KEY GOVERNME ONNEL: The Contracting Officer for this contract will be

The COR and Government Project Leader will be 1 |

15. DEFINED TERMS:

Key personnel - defined as proposed management and lead science and engineering staff

Contracting Officer Representative (COR) — The govemment official appointed by the contracting officer and who is
responsible for operations of the execution of the contract. The COR handles all aspects dealing with the inlerpretation
and deliverables of the contract.

Contracting Officer— Procurement official who holds a contracting warrant and is authonzed to obligate the govemment
under the terms of'a contract and make changes to the contract.