UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECEAL-USE-ONL

Negative Mass Propulsion

The Defense Intelligence Reference Document provides non-substantive but
authoritative reference information related to intelligence topics or methodologies.

Prepared by:

Technology Warning Division (DWO-4)
Defense Warning Office

Directorate for Analysis

Defense Intelligence Agency

Authar:

AAP Person 72

Administrative Notes:

(U) COPYRIGHT WARNING: Further dissemination of the photographs in this publication is not
authorized.

This product is one in a series of advanced technology reports produced in FY 2010 under the Defense

nipenarigs ct Defense Warning Office's Advanced Aerospace Weapon System Applications

p. Comments or questions pertaining to this document should be addressed to we Person
WSA Program ae Defense Intelligence Agency, ATTN: JUIAF - DI/DWO-3,

UNCLASSIFIED /*+F@R-OFF26F4i-U5E-Olh—

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGEAL-USE-ONLY

Contents
ee 2
2. The Theory by Bondi...............ccceeecee eect cece eeeeeeeee eee eeeneeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeaeeseeeeeetaeeees 4
3. Hund’s Nonlinear Newtonian Theory Of Gravity .....ccccecceceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeaeeaeeeens 6
4. The Theory of Bondi Re@VISItEd ........... cece ccc ese ese eee eee eeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeenteateateneees 10
5. The Zitterbewegung Phenomenon as a Manifestation of Negative Masses ...........4 10
6= Planck AGENEr HY DOLNESIS vissssscssevssscnssestscessveeseseepesaauxaeessaeveasenasaanereaaaaeeseeaee 14
7. Dynamic Interpretation of Lorentz Invariance.................c.0sesseceeeeeeussdissasiasaaiaeas 18
8. Negative Mass Interpretation of the Aharonov-Bohm Effect .........cccceeceeee eee eee eee eee 23
OG: ‘Negative MasseS:in COSMOIlOGY sereereeee erro seers re errr et eeeuerereeeaneerenetuneureeeeeeey 29
10; The Cusp/Core Problelil fi GalatiO HElOS sissscissisisisisivvsvevsvressserseseseeess 31
11. Searching for Negative Matter in the Gravitational Potential Well of the Moon...... 32
12. Making a Tunnel through the MOOD ........:cccecececsceceeeerscecesesesserseseesesserenseraesseess 33
BS. SCORCH IID. crscersnissnetarensniasersnisasennsessinincssicecxtsenties sea tiesniea pic ei mERy Sessa K ir Seo RNR RIERA Coe 38
Figures

EIQUIFESL.. FORGES ros cunsenrennsecm ans mecnrecenmeniisae miss enerrcrenarene rene nrcns conmnorenaanienranceemennemeets 2
Figure:2, Translation Gf Mass Dipol@ssccesseieicsivecsnmurnsecnenmmnr ee val
Figure 3. Circular Motion of a Pole-Dipole Particle... ccc cecccecceeseseseseseecseserseesseessseseseeeen® 12
Tables

Tablewi. InteractlonSssisteseesawestrasbarrengese eae ae eee 2
iii

UNCLASSIFIED /4-5OR-O5ELGTAL IS EOL oe

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFEGHH-USE-OAL

Negative Mass Propulsion

Summary

It is easy to prove that there are negative masses all around us, albeit
hidden behind positive masses. But their use for propulsion by reducing the
inertia of matter, for example in the limit of macroscopic bodies with zero rest
mass, depends on a technical solution to free them from their imprisonment by
positive masses. It appears that there are basically two ways this might be
achieved: 1. By the application of strong electromagnetic or gravitational
fields or by high particle energies; 2. By searching for places in the universe
where nature has already done this separation, and from which the negative
masses can be mined.

The first of these two possibilities is for all practical means excluded,
because if possible at all, it would depend on electromagnetic or gravitational
fields with strengths beyond what is technically attainable, or on extremely

large particle energies likewise not attainable.

With regard to the 2™ possibility, it has been observed that non-
baryonic cold dark matter tends to accumulate near the center of galaxies, or
places in the universe which have a large gravitational potential well. Because
of the equivalence principle of general relativity, the attraction towards the
center of a gravitational potential well, produced by a positive mass, is for
negative masses the same as for positive masses. Large amounts of negative
masses might have over billions of years been trapped in these gravitational

potential wells.

Now it just happens that the center of the moon is a potential well, not
too deep that it cannot be reached by making a tunnel through the moon, not
possible for the deeper potential well of the earth, where the temperature and
pressure are too high. Making a tunnel through the moon, provided there is a
good supply of negative mass, could revolutionize interstellar space flight. A
sequence of thermonuclear shape charges would be required to make such a

tunnel technically feasible.

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFEGHH-USE-OAL

1. Introduction

If we extend the law of gravity to negative masses, but hold onto the equivalence of
inertial and gravitational masses, we have to distinguish between the following four
cases, if a test particle is placed near a gravitational field producing mass (Table 1):

Table 1. Interactions

Gravitational field Mass of test
producing mass particle particle

Under the principle of equivalence if a negative test mass particle would be placed in

the gravitational field of earth, it would not fall upwards, as happens in science-fiction
antigravity machines. A test particle, regardless of whether it has positive or negative
mass, would there always fall down. It would fall upwards only if placed in the field of a

large negative mass.

A somewhat different situation arises if both masses, the field producing mass and the
mass of the test particle, have the same absolute value but are permitted to have

different signs. There we have to distinguish between the cases shown in Figure 1.

Figure 1. Forces

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

If both masses are positive, we have the usual Newtonian attraction. For negative
masses, the force has the same magnitude but is repulsive. A quite different situation
exists if one mass is positive and the other one is negative. With both forming a mass
dipole, the system becomes self-accelerating, because one mass is repelled and the
other one attracted. With the two masses having opposite sign, the total energy and
momentum of the combined system remains zero for all times, leaving intact the
conservation laws of energy and momentum. Under its self-acceleration, the mass
dipole would eventually reach the velocity of light. It is this property of self-acceleration
without expenditure of energy that has intrigued many researchers and raised the
prospect of a propulsion system without limits. We remark that even without an
appreciable gravitational interaction, a mass dipole with zero, or close to zero inertial

mass, could be accelerated to very high velocities with negligible jet power and energy.

No matter how strange the properties associated with negative masses appear to be,
there can be little doubt that they can be incorporated into Einstein’s gravitational field
theory as long as they do not violate the principle of equivalence. In particular, the well
known Schwarzschild solution for a positive mass M

dr’

can be extended to a negative mass, simply by replacing M with -M:

el

dr-

1+2yM/cr

where y is Newton’s constant.

One therefore has to raise the question if nature has not made use of negative masses
somewhere. Over and over again we have found that what is possible, within the
framework of the fundamental laws of physics, exists. Only one important physical set
of laws, Einstein's special theory of relativity appears to forbid the existence of negative
masses. This is because in a relativistic quantum field theory the particle number is not
a conserved quantity, and the existence of negative masses would make all matter

unstable against decay into negative masses.

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

Apart from Einstein’s purely kinematic interpretation of special relativity, being the
expression of a Minkowskian space-time structure, there is an older alternative dynamic
interpretation by Lorentz and Poincaré. In it space and time are absolute, but it can
explain all relativistic effects as well. It assumes the existence of an aether, with all
objects in absolute motion through the aether suffering a Lorentz contraction and time
dilation. If this aether has a grainy structure, characterized by some smallest length
(e.g., the Planck length ~ 10-33 cm), then according to Heisenberg’s uncertainty
principle special relativity would ultimately break down at a high energy. If the length is
very small, this energy can be so high as to be far beyond the capabilities of any
existing particle accelerator or even beyond the high energy of cosmic ray particles,
making both interpretations of special relativity experimentally indistinguishable at the
energies presently available.

2. The Theory of Bondi

The first attempt to introduce negative masses into general relativity to describe a
mass dipole was made by H. Bondi [1]. For a uniformly accelerating mass dipole Bondi
uses the axially symmetric metric by Weyl and Levi-Civita [2]:

where = Q(r,z) and o=o(r,Z) satisfy

or or Oz (5)

Oz Or oz P)
4

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

Inserting (3-6) into Einstein’s nonlinear gravitational field equations, one obtains four

nonlinear partial differential equations (K =87 y/c4 ) given by

a > 2 ldo (dp) (ap)
xen) 10a (ag) (apy
Rn Ee ene me 2% (5) E i ~

In solving these equations Bondi assumes that @ is small, which then also implies that
because of (5) and (6) o is small by the second order, reducing the solution of the
problem to the linear Laplace equation of the scalar Newtonian potential in empty space.
Making this assumption, Bondi can reproduce the uniform acceleration of the mass
dipole, as it is expected from an elementary analysis. It is here that we must disagree
with Bondi!, because it can be shown that the nonlinearity of the gravitational field
equation leads to a very different result. The nonlinearity also sheds light on why it is
so difficult to separate negative from positive masses, whereby negative masses are all

around us, but imprisoned by positive masses.

1 The author had the pleasure to meet Prof. Bondi on a common flight from Graz,
Austria in 1993 (we both are members of an academy which had a meeting in that
year in Graz), and ask him how his solution can be correct since it does not include
the field of the positive gravitational field mass of a mass dipole. This problem will
be analyzed in the next section, and its solution has far reaching consequences.

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFEGHH-USE-OAL

3. Hund’s Nonlinear Newtonian Theory of Gravity

As explained by Hund [3], already Newton’s theory of gravity, in conjunction with the
postulates of special relativity, leads to a nonlinear theory of gravity. With this model
theory of gravity the nonlinearity of the gravitational field can be much better explained
than with Einstein’s theory.

Hund begins with the force F acting on a mass m in a “merry-go-round”:

c

If g is the gravitational acceleration by real masses with the density p, one has in
Newton’s theory

divg =—4zyp. (12)

In the merry-go-round g has a vertical component from the earth’s gravitational field,
but also a radial component by the radial centrifugal acceleration which is not source-

free. With lg|=o’r, where @=2z2/T , with T the time of revolution, and r the radial

distance from the center of the merry-go-round, one has

Comparing (13) with (12) one sees that the centrifugal force corresponds to a

gravitational repulsion of a homogeneous mass density

2

2ny-

For a typical “merry-go-round” one has T = 10 sec, and hence, w=0.6s . For this

example one obtains from (14), u=-10° g/cm , taken as an absolute value about

equal to the mass density of a white dwarf.

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

The mass density (14) is not fictitious but represents physical reality. According to
Einstein’s FE = mc? one obtains for an electric field E the mass density

= So ie >0

Replacing 9 with -(1/y), one obtains the energy density of the gravitational field
72
87

It possesses the (negative) mass density

8m yc

Besides the field g, we have on a “merry-go-round” the Coriolis force field

By setting G = g and inserting G into (17) with g? = G?, one obtains the mass density
(14). This means the centrifugal force is the gravitational force associated with the

mass density of the Coriolis field.

But where is this huge negative mass coming from? The obvious answer is by the very
large vacuum energy, making itself felt by going to an accelerated frame of reference.

In Mach’s principle the motion of the distant galaxies as seen in an accelerated frame of
reference is responsible for the inertial forces. But this idea is wrong because if by some
miracle the distant galaxies were to be set into motion, it would take a long time before

their fields propagating with the velocity of light would reach the earth.

Adding the mass of the Coriolis field to the right side of the equation (12), we have by
putting it on the left hand side

_
co"

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

In one further step one should have

l

9
c

or if G=0 and F=—V@, where ¢ is the Newtonian gravitational potential, one obtains

for Poisson’s equation:

1
2c’

According to (21) the positive mass as the source of the Newtonian potential is reduced
by the negative mass of its field. (Einstein’s theory leads to almost the same, except

that there the negative gravitational mass density is twice as large.) One can then write

1
2c?

The earth is therefore embedded in a sea of negative mass. Making the substitution

_ ole
transforms (22) into

If pis a delta function at r = 0, where
then one obtains from (24):

dr

Cc

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

Mn

the same as in Newton’s theory.

For a sphere of constant density p one obtains the solution

sinhkr |, 47y
kr Cc

Hence,
kr

For small values of r one has

with the force per unit mass

as in Newton's theory.

In general one has

inet se cna Fe 4] . sa
ic re

Cc
which in the limit r — co becomes a constant:

lg|=-J4aypc, (33)

which implies the self-shielding of a large mass by the negative mass of its own
gravitational field surrounding the mass. The shielding becomes important at the
distance

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFEGHH-USE-OAL

Inserting into (34) the average mass density of the universe, R becomes the radius of
the universe. The negative gravitational mass of the universe there shields its positive

mass.

4. The Theory of Bondi Revisited

We are now in a position to revisit the theory by Bondi. In his treatment of the positive-
negative-mass dipole two body problem, he did not take into account the gravitational
field of this configuration. According to (27) the gravitational potential of a point mass
remains the same as in Newton’s theory. This means that the gravitational potential
interaction energy for two positive equal masses,

mxm m
i r

is changed for a mass dipole into

mx(—m m
i ila le a (36)
r r
In the theory of Bondi this positive field mass must be added to the positive mass,
resulting in a mass pole-dipole, which is a mass pole with a superimposed mass dipole.

As we will see in the next section this fact has very important consequences [4].

5. The Zitterbewegung Phenomenon as a Manifestation of
Negative Masses

There is no fundamental physical principle standing in the way which forbids the
existence of negative masses. If this is true, the question is: Where are these negative
masses? The recently noticed large bubbles or voids observed in intergalactic space
could possibly be explained by the repulsive force of negative masses assumed to
occupy the voids, but alternative, less exotic, explanations have been offered as well.

However, there is at least one fundamental phenomenon which strongly speaks for the

10

UNCLASSIFIED S/POROPPICTAL USE ONE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

existence of negative masses. It is the spin of the fermions, like the spin of the electron.
Fermions are described by Dirac’s relativistic wave equation. This equation has both
positive and negative energy components and because of the mass-energy relation, it
therefore must have negative mass components. According to Schrédinger [4], it is
these negative mass components which lead to the phenomenon of the spin. Since the
overall mass of the electron is positive, the occurrence of negative masses in the Dirac
equation must mean that the electron is a mass pole with a superimposed mass dipole

Lo].

The spin is definitely not an intrinsic rotational motion of a finite size particle, as older
models had suggested it to be. The original model by Uhlenbeck and Goudsmit, for

example, cannot possibly be correct because it requires superluminal rotation velocities

for an electron with the classical radius 7, = e’/mce :

If we consider the linear motion of a mass dipole (Figure 2), we immediately see that
its translation generates angular momentum. Construction of a mass pole with a
superimposed mass dipole can simply be done by choosing the positive mass slightly
larger than the magnitude of its negative counterpart. For such a pole-dipole particle
the center of mass S is outside the line connecting both masses (Figure 3) with its
motion taking place on a circle of radius rc.

Figure 2. Translation of mass dipole.

11
UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

+
m
Wi
S
\
es ,
™~,

Figure 3. Circular motion of a pole-dipole particle.

Because it is self-accelerating the circular motion will eventually reach the velocity of
light. The connection with Schrédinger’s analysis is reached if one puts in Planck’s
constant and m as the electron mass

h

“me ole.

whereby the circular motion around S produces just the angular momentum h/2 as in

Dirac’s equation.

The velocity-of-light result was first obtained by Breit [6], according to which Dirac’s
equation predicts a local electron velocity equal to the velocity of light. Even though its
time-averaged velocity is always less than the velocity of light, this means that the
electron, represented by the pole-dipole configuration, makes a circular luminal motion
onto which a subluminal motion of the center of mass S is superimposed. The trajectory
of the resulting motion is a screw-line, but it is the motion of S only which one identifies
with the (time-averaged) electron velocity. The result derived from this simple pole-

dipole model is in beautiful agreement with Schrédinger’s analysis of the Dirac equation,

12

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

in which the luminal rotational motion emerges as a fluctuation of the electron

coordinate, called by Schrodinger Zitterbewegung (German for quivering motion).

We may analyze the simple pole-dipole model in more detail as follows. If the positive

and negative masses are m+, m-, with m* —|m-|<< m* , and with the mass pole given

by

the mass dipole is

where r<<+r. is the distance of separation in between mand mm. The center of mass

is determined by

The angular momentum then becomes (w is the angular velocity of circular motion with

LOC):

=m'r.ro
=m TC
Comparing (40) with (37) shows that
and
13

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

Experimentally, the electron is indistinguishable from a point. This would make r = 0. In

reality its size must be finite but in principle can be very small. This means that ™m*

(and|m"|) are likely to be very much larger than m.

t has been conjectured by H6énl and Papapetrou [5] that the electron is a pole-dipole

particle where the surplus positive energy comes from the positive gravitational
interaction energy of a very large positive m* mass with a likewise very large negative

mass. According to this hypothesis one would have for the electron rest

mass energy

Combining (44) with (42) one can compute m”. The result is [5]:

h

larger by a factor 3.6x10'! times the mass of the proton.

We therefore see that there are huge amounts of negative masses bound to positive
masses in Dirac spinors. It shows that it cannot be a simple matter to free the negative

masses from the positive masses. And it explains why the masses of the elementary

particles are so much smaller than the Planck mass, m, ~ 10° g.

6. Planck Aether Hypothesis [7,8]

We make here the proposition that the fundamental group is SU2, and that by Planck’s
conjecture the fundamental equations of physics contain as free parameters only the
Planck length rp, the Planck mass mp and Planck time tp (y Newton’s constant, h

Planck’s constant, c the velocity of light):

14
UNCLASSIFIED SfPOROPPETCTAL USE ONET

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

[h
c

~
I|

| 7

The assumption that SU2 is the fundamental group means that nature works like a
computer with a binary number system. Since SU2 is isomorphic to SO3, the rotation

group in R3, this explains why natural space is three-dimensional.

The Planck’s aether conjecture is the assumption that the vacuum of space is densely
filled with an equal number of positive and negative Planck mass particles, with each
Planck length volume on the average occupied by one Planck mass, with the Planck
mass particles interacting with each other by the Planck force over a Planck length, and
with Planck mass particles of equal sign repelling and those of opposite sign attracting
each other. The particular choice made for the sign of the Planck force is the only one
that keeps the Planck aether stable. While Newton’s action-reaction remains valid for
the interaction of equal Planck mass particles, it is violated for the interaction of a
positive with a negative Planck mass particle, even though globally the total linear
momentum of the Planck mass plasma is conserved, with the recoil absorbed by the

Planck aether as a whole.

It is the local violation of Newton’s action-reaction which leads to quantum mechanics
at the most fundamental level, as can be seen as follows: Under the Planck

the velocity fluctuation of a Planck mass particle interacting with a

pr

Planck mass particle of opposite sign is Av=(F,/m, )t, =(c?/r,)(r,/c)=c, and hence

yields the momentum fluctuation Ap=m,c. But since Ag=r, and because m,r,c=h,

one obtains Heisenberg’s uncertainty relation ApAg=h for a Planck-mass particle.
Accordingly, the quantum fluctuations are explained by the interaction with hidden

negative masses, with energy borrowed from the sea of hidden negative masses.

15

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

According to Newtonian mechanics and Planck’s conjecture, the interaction of a positive

with a negative Planck-mass particle leads to a velocity fluctuation d&a,t, =c witha
displacement of the particle equal to 5=(1/2)a,t° =r,/2, where a,=F,/m, .

Therefore, a Planck-mass particle immersed in the Planck aether makes a stochastic
quivering motion (Zitterbewegung) with the velocity

where n=1/r) is the average number density of positive or negative Planck mass

particles. The kinetic energy of this diffusion process is given by

Putting
h

Mm,

where S is the Hamilton action function and v is the velocity of the Planck aether, the
Lagrange density for the Planck aether is

Variation of (49) with regard to S according to

Slaa|tslaga |= 50
leads to

nD Fens) 0 (51)
ot m,

16

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

or

on

which is the continuity equation of the Planck aether. Variation with regard to n

according to

On) Or\ On/Oor 32)
leads to

as h? » Ww I1(Vvn)y Vn

or

as ; wn. t Vata

Ot Bish ) 2m, Jn rl

With the Madelung transformation
y=Vne®, yw =Vne™, (56)

one obtains from (51) and (55) the Schrédinger equation

In the Planck aether hypothesis all particles, save and except the Planck mass particles,
are quasi-particles of the Planck aether, like the phonons, rotons, excitons, etc., of
condensed matter physics, and by the wave structure of the Planck aether are Lorentz
invariant. In forming quantized vortices, the Planck aether also has vortex waves,
simulating Maxwell's and Einstein’s electromagnetic and gravitational waves. Dirac

spinors are made possible by the negative masses of the Planck aether.

17

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

Quantum mechanics predicts for each harmonic oscillator the zero-point energy

(1/2)ho, which has to be multiplied with the volume element in frequency space

4rd , to obtain the zero-point energy spectrum
f(@)dw=const x ada. (58)

Now (58) turns out to be just the only spectrum that is Lorentz invariant. But the
spectrum (58) is also the only one which does not lead to a friction force on a charged
particle moving through an electromagnetic spectrum with this frequency dependence.
This means that special relativity is a consequence of quantum mechanics, leading to
the zero point vacuum energy, and can be interpreted by saying that the zero-point

vacuum energy “generates” the Minkowski space-time.

7. Dynamic Interpretation of Lorentz Invariance

A cut-off at the Planck frequency generates a distinguished reference system in which
the zero-point energy spectrum is isotropic and at rest. In this distinguished reference
system, the scalar potential from which the forces are to be derived satisfies the
inhomogeneous wave equation:

10
Ot

where p(r,f) are the sources of this field. For a body in static equilibrium at rest in the

distinguished reference system for which the sources are those of the body itself one

has

If set into absolute motion with the velocity v along x-axis, the coordinates of the
reference system at rest with the moving body are obtained by the Galilei

transformation:

18

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

x =x-vt,
— ’
yy,
z =z,

t'=t

transforming (59) into

+

After the body has settled into a new equilibrium in which 0/0t' =0, one has instead of

IX

Oy = az

2
Cc

Comparison of (63) with (60) shows that the left-hand side of (63) is the same if one

sets ©'=@ and dx’ =dxJ1—v'/c’ . This implies a uniform contraction of the body by

the factor Vl-v?/e? because the sources are contracted by the factor yl-v/e? as

well, whereby the right-hand side of (63) becomes equal to the right-hand side of (60).
Since the zero-point energy is invariant under a Lorentz transformation, the quantum

potential changes in the same way as @. The body therefore sustains its static

equilibrium under a contraction by the factor yl-v?/c? if set into absolute motion,

explaining the Lorentz contraction dynamically.

The clock retardation effect can be derived from the contraction effect, and from there
the Lorentz transformation. Following Builder [9] this original interpretation of Lorentz
invariance by Lorentz and Poincaré has been worked out in every detail by Prokhovnik
[10]. To derive the clock retardation effect from the contraction effect one considers a
light clock, which is a rod with mirrors attached to its two ends in between which a light
signal is sent forth and back. If the length of the rod is /, and if the rod rests in the
distinguished reference system, the time needed for the light signal to be sent forth and

back is

19

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FO@f-OFFEGH-USE-OAL

If prior to being set into motion the rod is inclined against the x-axis by the angle 9, it
appears to be inclined against the x-axis by the different angle w after set into motion,

with y expressed through » by

tany =ytang (65)
y= (1-v’ ke yr

The absolute motion then contracts the rod from /to /:

l

Relative to the moving rod the velocity of light is anisotropic, and for the to and fro

directions given by

A v ek ae)

with the time t for a to and fro signal given by

Therefore, as seen from an observer at rest in the distinguished reference system the

clock goes slower by the factor y =1/V1-v" /c? , independent of the inclination of the
rod making up the clock. With solid bodies held together by electromagnetic forces,
clocks made from solid matter should behave like light clocks. As it was claimed by
Poincaré, it should for this reason be possible to obtain the Lorentz transformations
solely from the contraction effect with a proper convention about the synchronization of
clocks.

According to Einstein, two clocks, A and B, are synchronized if

20
UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

where v is the time a light signal is emitted from A to B, reflected at B back to A,
arriving at A at the time oe and where it is assumed that the time f, at which the

reflection at B takes place is equal to the arithmetic average of t’, and i. Only by

making this assumption does the velocity of light turn out always to be isotropic and

equal to c. From an absolute point of view, the following rather is true. If fpis the

absolute reflection time of the light signal at clock B, one has for the out and return
journeys of the light signal from A to B and back to A, if measured by an observer in an

absolute system at rest in the distinguished reference system:

y(t, —tp)=d/c- me

where d is the distance between both clocks, and where c, and c_are given by (67).

Adding the equations (70) one obtains

If an observer at rest with the clock wants to measure the distance from A to B, he can
measure the time it takes a light signal to go from A to B and back to A. If he assumes
that the velocity of the light is constant and isotropic in all inertial reference systems,
including the one he is in, moving together with A and B with the absolute velocity v,

the distance is

And because of (71)

21

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

Comparing this result with (66), one sees that he would obtain the same distance d’, if
he uses a contracted rod as a measuring stick, or Einsteins’s constant light velocity
postulate. The velocity of light between A and B by using a rod to measure the distance
and the time it takes a light signal in going from A to B and back to A, of course, will

turn out to be equal to c, because according to (72)

2d'

2 |
t,—t,

Rather than using a reflected light signal to measure the distance d’, the observer at A
may try to measure the one-way velocity of light by first synchronizing the clock B with
A and then measure the time for a light signal to go from A to B. However, since this
synchronization procedure also uses reflected light signals, the result is the same. For
the velocity he finds

tp—-t, W/2ae+t)-th tt ai

By subtracting the equations (70) one finds that

which shows that from an absolute point of view the “true” reflection time 7f, at clock B
is only then equal to f,, if v = 0. From an absolute point of view the propagation of

light is isotropic only in the distinguished reference system, but anisotropic in a
reference system in absolute motion against the distinguished reference system. This
anisotropy remains hidden due to the impossibility to measure the one-way velocity of
light. The impossibility is expressed in the Lorentz transformations themselves,

containing the scalar c’ rather than the vector c, through which an anisotropic light

propagation would have to be expressed.

22

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FO@R-OFFEGH-USE-OALY
8. Negative Mass Interpretation of the Aharonov-Bohm
Effect [11]

In Maxwell’s equations the electric and magnetic fields can be expressed through a

scalar potential ® and a vector potential A:

H=curlA

E and H remain unchanged under the gauge transformation of the potentials

where fis called the gauge function. Imposing on ® and A the Lorentz gauge condition,

1 od

the gauge function must satisfy the wave equation

1 ila d 2
Sea rT

In an electromagnetic field the force on a charge e is

Fae B+ tvxH]
Cc

=e 2 grado +1 vxcurtd | (81)
c Ot c

By making a gauge transformation of the Hamilton operator in the Schrédinger wave

equation, the wave function transforms as

23

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

owes fol

leaving invariant the probability density y*y.

To give gauge invariance a hydrodynamic interpretation, we compare (81) with the
force acting on a test body of mass m placed into the moving Planck aether. This force
follows Euler’s equation and is

Fm] 2 grad{™|-vxcarty] (83)

Complete analogy between (81) and (83) is established if one sets

mc ~
e
According to (78) and (82), ® and A shift the phase of a Schrédinger wave by
@ th
he4

The corresponding expressions for a gravitational field can be directly obtained from the
equivalence principle [3]. If Ov/Ot is the acceleration and w the angular velocity of the

universe relative to a reference system assumed to be a rest, the inertial forces in this
system are

OV
F=m Bp tT OXE-Ox(Oxr) - Bx 20 ' (86)

For (86) we write

24
UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /F@R-OFF624-U52-08.~
fl ,
F =m) Ba tv,
Cc

where

H=-2co.

With

one has

divH =0

| Oe oath 20.
c Ot

E and H can be derived from a scalar and vector potential

E= pee. grad®
c Ot
H=curlA.

Applied to a rotating reference system one has

A

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

25

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

or
=

—

Apart from the factor m/e, this is same as (84).

For weak gravitational fields produced by slowly moving matter, Einstein’s linearized

gravitational field equations permit the gauge condition (replacing the Lorentz gauge)

HOD Ahi
c Ot
aA 9
Ot

With the gauge transformation for Mand A

where f has to satisfy the potential equation

For a stationary gravitational field the vector potential changes phase of the

Schrédinger wave function according to
this (96)
leading to phase shift on a closed path

m A

26

UNCLASSIFIED SfPOROPPICTAL USE ONTT

UNCLASSIFIED / /F@R-OF64.-U52-0AL~.

In the hydrodynamic interpretation suggested by the Planck aether hypothesis, the
phase shifts caused by either the magnetic or the gravitational vector potential result
from a circular flow of the Planck aether. The principle of equivalence can precisely
relate this circular flow to the angular velocity of a rotating platform. According to (93),
one has for the gravitational vector potential in a rotating frame of reference

with the phase shift given by (97). One can apply (97) to the Sagnac effect for photons

of frequency v. By putting mc” = hv =2zhv, with the result that

2nv

dp =2enr mas

2

the same as predicted by quantum mechanics.

We now compute the phase shift (85) by a magnetic vector potential. To make a
comparison with the gravitational vector potential in the Sagnac effect, we consider the
magnetic field produced by an infinitely long cylindrical solenoid of radius R. Inside the
solenoid the field is constant, vanishing outside. If the magnetic field inside the solenoid

is H, the vector potential is

1
a eal r<R
1 HR?

According to (85) the vector potential on a closed path leads to the phase shift

27

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

c
6g =-— HnxR road. (99)
he

As noted by Aharonov and Bohm [11], there is a phase shift for r > R, even though for

r>R,H = 0 (because for r > R, curl A = 0).

Expressing A by (84) through v, the hypothetical circular aether velocity, one has

e
® 2mc
e HR
2mc Fr

One sees that inside the coil the velocity profile is the same as in a rotating frame of
reference, having outside the coil the form of potential vortex. If expressed in terms of

the aether velocity the phase shift becomes
™

the same as (97) for the vector potential created by a gravitational field, and hence the
same as in the Sagnac experiment and neutron interference experiment. But for the
magnetic vector potential the aether velocity can easily become much larger than in
any rotating platform experiment. According to (102), the velocity reaches a maximum

at r = R, where it is

Yroc| _ CHR

c 2mc”

For electrons this is |v,,,.|/¢ =310~ HR , where H is measured in Gauss. For H = 104 G,
this would mean that v,,,, 2c for R > 0.3 cm. If this would be same aether velocity felt
on a rotating platform, it would lead to an enormous centrifugal and Coriolis field inside

the coil, obviously not observed.

28

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

The Planck aether model can give a simple explanation for this paradox. The Planck
aether consists of two superfluid components, one composed of positive Planck masses
and the other one of negative Planck masses. The two components can freely flow
through each other, making possible two configurations, one where both components
are corotating and one where they are counterrotating. The corotating configuration is
realized on a rotating platform, where it leads to the Sagnac and neutron interference
effects. This suggests that in the presence of the magnetic vector potential the two
superfluid components are counterrotating. Outside the coil, where curl A = O, the
magnetic energy density vanishes, implying that the magnitudes of both velocities are
exactly the same. Inside the coil, where curl A # 0, there must be a small imbalance in
the velocity of the positive over the negative Planck masses to result in a positive

energy density.

9. Negative Masses in Cosmology

In the Planck aether theory, the negative gravitational field energy surrounding a mass
is due to an excess of negative over positive mass, and the negative mass surrounding
a highly collapsed spherical body or black hole is of the same order of magnitude as the
positive mass accumulated inside the collapsed body. An assembly of interacting
positive and negative masses can, in general, not lead to a thermodynamic equilibrium.
If all the positive masses are separated from the negative ones, it is sufficient to
require that each mass species reaches thermodynamic equilibrium. It was shown by
Vysin [12] that an assembly of negative masses can acquire thermodynamic
equilibrium provided the temperature is negative. The kinetic energy of a negative
Planck mass is negative, and an assembly of negative Planck masses has, for this

reason, a negative temperature. It therefore can reach thermodynamic equilibrium.
We now make the following hypothesis:

If an assembly of positive and negative masses, with the total energy equal to
zero, is brought together, the temperature and hence entropy of the mixture will
go to zero.

29
UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

This hypothesis is the only one consistent with Nernst’s theorem. It, of course, implies
that an assembly of positive and negative masses can perfectly mix because otherwise
no equilibrium can be reached. To satisfy this hypothesis, we assume that the negative
masses have negative entropy. Only the assumption that an assembly of negative
masses has negative entropy permits an analytic continuation of the entropy from
positive to negative temperatures. If the entropy for negative temperatures would be
counted positive, the function dS/dT would be discontinuous at T = 0.

For the entropy of a mixture of positive and negative masses to become zero requires
an exact correlation in the disorder of the positive mass gas with the disorder of the
negative mass gas. This is certainly true if the negative mass is equal to the negative
mass of the gravitational field of the positive mass, because the Newtonian
gravitational field of each particle, all the way down to the smallest dimension, is
precisely correlated to the position of the particle. The entropy of the positive mass of
matter and the entropy of the negative mass of its gravitational field (correlated to the
entropy of the positive mass which is the source of this field) might therefore be called
complementary (like a positive and negative photographic image). The expansion from
a very small phase space volume would then be possible, because if the positive and
negative masses are densely packed within the same volume, not only their energy, but

also their entropy would cancel.

The time needed to bring back the universe to its original low entropy state, is the
Poincaré recurrence time. While under normal conditions this time is huge, it may in a
dense mixture of positive and negative masses with a divergent acceleration become
quite small. This might explain why the initial entropy of the universe is very small. The
Planck aether hypothesis gives a plausible explanation for the observed vanishing of the
sum of all charges, like the electric, color and weak charges. With the phenomenon of
charge explained to result from the zero point fluctuations of Planck masses bound in
vortex filaments and with an equal number of positive and negative Planck masses, the
sum of all the charges must vanish. That this should be also be true for the
gravitational charges finds its expression in the compensation of the positive energy in
the universe by its negative gravitational energy. This compensation explains why the

flatness parameter is Q=1.

30
UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

Furthermore, with the sum of all gravitational charges equal to zero, the cosmological

constant A playing the role of a kind of charge, demands that also A = 0.

Finally, with the negative entropy of the negative Planck masses playing the role of a
kind of photographic negative for the positive entropy of the positive Planck masses,
the total entropy, made up from the sum of the positive and negative Planck masses,
would also be equal to zero.

In summary we may write

with the cosmological consequence

The horizon problem is here resolved by superluminal electromagnetic and gravitational
shock waves during the high density phase of the cosmological evolution, not by an

inflationary expansion of space.

10. The Cusp/Core Problem in Galactic Halos

We have seen that there appears to be strong evidence for the existence of negative
matter in the universe. And we have also given reasons that negative matter might be
hidden behind positive matter, forming pole-dipole Dirac spinor configurations
neutralizing the negative matter. This still leaves open the question as to whether in
certain regions of space there might be a surplus of negative over positive matter, and
if negative matter can be “mined” from such regions.

It has been conjectured by Forward [13] that negative matter might be located in the
intergalactic voids, explaining the “bubble” structure of the metagalaxy. The negative
mass in the voids would produce gravitational potential hills repelling all matter,
positive and negative, like the positive matter of the galaxies produces gravitational
potential wells attracting all matter, positive and negative. But the accumulation of
negative matter in the gravitational wells of positive matter reduces and flattens the

31
UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFEGHH-USE-OAL

depth of the wells. This simple fact might explain the unsolved cusp/core problem of

galactic halos [14].

But what happens in the center of galaxies must also happen to a lesser degree in the
center of the sun, the planets, the earth and the moon. To “mine” negative matter, if it
should exist there, excludes the sun, and also all planets, that have a hot molten core.
This does not exclude the moon, however, having the deepest potential well near the
earth, with only hot rocks in its center accessible by advanced nuclear mining
technology, permitting in principle constructing a tunnel through the moon [15].

11. Searching for Negative Matter in the Gravitational
Potential Well of the Moon

The radius of the moon is R=1.74x10%cm and the gravitational acceleration at its
surface is g, =1.62x10°cm/s’. At a distance r < R from its center the gravitational

acceleration is
and the pressure balance equation is

pis t 106

where p= p(r) is the pressure for r < R. The pressure at the center therefore is

R
Ps 1
Prax im * [rdr=—pg,R, (107)
2
With p2=3.33g/cm’> the average density of the moon, one _ finds

The temperature 7T can be estimated from the equation P,,,, ="kT , where

k =1.38x10"'erg/K is the Boltzmann constant and n=10*cm™ the atomic number

32

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

density of the rocks. For p,,, =5x10'°dyn/cm® one finds T=4x10°K . Both the

pressure and the temperature are technically manageable, the pressure with layers of
shattered rocks around a tunnel passing through the center of the moon, and the
temperature with some cooling. Seismic measurements suggest that the center of the

moon is made up of hot rocks.

If appreciable amounts of negative matter have accumulated over billions of years in
the center of the moon, it is more likely that this matter is in the form of ultra-light
matter, perhaps by an order of magnitude lighter than ordinary matter. There are
indications that a Swedish research group has found evidence for the existence of an
ultra-dense phase of deuterium, about more than 100,000 times more dense than
water [16]. Suppose that in the center of the moon the accumulation of negative
matter has led to a form of matter which is 100,000 times lighter than steel, but still
has the strength of steel. This would not lead to a negative-positive mass self-chasing
mass dipole as envisioned by Forward [13], but to something very important for space-
flight, because it would dramatically reduce the energy requirements to accelerate a

space craft made from such ultra-light material.

The question as to whether there is such an unusual substance in the center of the
moon can probably be answered by seismic wave tomography, obtained by nuclear

explosions set off on the surface of the moon.

12. Making a Tunnel through the Moon [15]

The cohesive energy of rocks is of the order &, =10'°erg/cm’. Therefore, the explosive

yield needed to shatter a spherical volume of radius r is

The energy released in a kiloton nuclear explosion is Ex 4x10" erg. With this energy,

the radius of the crushed rocks would be r~10°cm(= 10 m), and with a 10 kiloton

explosion it would be twice as large.

33

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

To make a tunnel, a cylindrical, rather than spherical, volume of crushed rocks is
desired. For this reason a thermonuclear shape charge or an explosive lens is better

suited to shatter the rocks.

In the center of the moon the temperature is several thousand degrees centigrade.
With the heat diffusion equation given by

oT a

where 7 is the heat diffusion coefficient, the diffusion time for a layer of thickness x is

coe ape (110)

For lunar rocks one has 1 =4x10% cm/s . Taking the example x=20m=2x10°cm,
one finds that eHle s=30yr; and at the high rock temperatures the heat diffusion

time would be uncomfortably long.

The situation is drastically changed for a layer of crushed rocks, because there it is
possible to remove heat by a coolant pumped through the porous medium of the
crushed rocks. At the high temperatures of several thousand degrees centigrade, a
liquid alkali metal, for example lithium, abundantly available on the moon, could be
used as a coolant. The velocity the coolant diffuses into the crushed rocks is determined

by Darcy’s law
v=—Degradp, (111)

where p is the pressure, D=x/pg, with kK ~ 1 cm/s a typical value. If the pressure

gradient is provided by the gravitational force one has gradp=pg and hence

34

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

The time needed for the liquid metal to pass through a ~ 20 m thick layer is then ~ 2 x

10? seconds ~ 1 hour. The specific heat per unit volume of the coolant is pc, ~ 3 x 107

erg/cm?K, and for T = 3 x 10? K one has pc.T ~ 101! erg/cm?.

The heat per unit volume which has to be removed from the crushed rocks is of the
order p, where p is the rock pressure. In the center of the moon where p = 5 x 10!°
dyn/cm2, this energy is 5 x 10° erg/cm3. It thus follows that the volume of the liquid
coolant must be about 2 of the rock volume to be cooled. For a rock volume of (20
cm)? ~ 10% m3, a coolant volume of about 5 x 10? cm? would be needed. The same
coolant can be used many times over after the heat is removed from it, which could be
done on the surface of the moon by radiation or perhaps better by heat exchangers
transferring the heat to lunar sand. Without a thick layer of shattered rocks surrounding
the tunnel, the pressure acting on the tunnel wall would be large, in particular in the
center of the moon. Because of friction between particles of the shattered rock, large
shear stresses can be sustained changing the pressure distribution in the rock and
reducing the pressure gradient and hence the pressure on the tunnel wall.

A more detailed calculation [15] for the pressure distribution in the shattered rock
tunnel wall gives

9
where ro is the radius of the tunnel.

Integrating eqn (108) one obtains for the pressure distribution in the moon

for which one can also write

r 2

35
UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

If rs is the horizontal radius up to which the rocks at a certain depth have to be
shattered (cylindrical case), one finds by equating p(r) in (115) and (117)

r

The total energy required to shatter the rocks to make a tunnel from the center at the
moon where r = 0, to its surface where r = R, is then given by summing up over the

slices with radius rs and thickness dr

2 Pm r

where as in eqn (110) €, = 10° erg/cm’ is the cohesive binding energy of the rocks. For

(119) one can write

|

0

With the help of Euler’s betafunction one has

flier)” dx = aaa 5. Hae (119)

Hence,

finds that E= 2x10“ erg = 5x10" kiloton = 50 Megaton.

It must be emphasized that this energy must be quite nonuniformly released along the
tunnel shaft. Nuclear fusion explosions below a yield of 10 kiloton become
uneconomical with only a fraction of the energy in the fissionable material (needed to

36

UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFECGHH-USE-OAL

make a critical assembly) released. For a 10 kiloton fission explosion the shatter radius
computed from (110) is ~ 20 m. With a tunnel radius ro ~ 10 m one would have

(r,/7)) ~ Zand from (118) that

Putting for the depth of the tunnel (if measured from the surface of the moon)
0 =R-r, with

or that 0 =10km.

For a depth < 10 km the nuclear explosion with a yield < 10 kiloton would suffice, a
yield which is uneconomical. It is for this reason suggested that one uses altogether
thermonuclear explosive devices where the cost per yield is much lower. To penetrate
and shatter the rocks more efficiently, jet-generating thermonuclear explosive lenses
could be used. The thermonuclear detonation wave ignited at one point is there shaped
into a jet-producing conical explosion by placing obstacles in the path of the wave. The
ignition can be done by a fission explosive, but conceivably also by a powerful laser
beam, with the laser beam projected down the tunnel shaft, triggering the
thermonuclear explosive positioned at the lower end.

With the above-given estimate of ~ 50 Megaton needed to dig the tunnel shaft, the
number of thermonuclear explosive devices making use of the detonation wave lens
technique could for this reason be quite reasonable, and certainly much less than the

number of required fission explosives.

After nuclear explosions have crushed the rocks and the heat is removed, the tunnel
wall has to be made from some kind of ceramic material, since water with which to
make concrete is only sparsely available on the moon. But for the wall to last, its
temperature must be kept low. The low heat conductivity of rocks, requiring little
cooling, is there of considerable help. For the crushed rocks the heat conduction

coefficient should not be very different than for solid rocks. According to eqn (112) the

37

UNCLASSIFIED >+4+-@R-OF FLEA USE-OE

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFEGHH-USE-OAL

heat diffusion time for a 20 m layer of rocks is ~ 30 years. This means that a small,
continuous removal of the heat through the injection and circulation of a liquid metal
into the crushed rocks should keep down the temperature of the tunnel wall and its

environment.

13. Conclusion

The purpose of this study is the question as to whether negative mass might exist, and
if negative mass propulsion is possible at all. It is unlikely to be possible in the fashion
speculated by Forward [13] (but also see Winterberg [17]), where a negative mass is
chasing a positive mass without the expenditure of any energy. Rather, it might
perhaps be possible through the existence of an ultra-light form of matter with the
tensile strength of ordinary matter on a macroscopic scale where positive matter is
bound to negative matter, as happens with Dirac spinor particles on a microscopic scale.
This is the speculative existence of macroscopic bodies approaching zero rest mass, of
importance for space flight because such matter would greatly reduce its energy

requirements.

38
UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT

UNCLASSIFIED / /FOR-OFFEGHH-USE-OAL

REFERENCES

2. P.G. Bergmann, Introduction to the Theory of Relativity, Prentice Hall, Inc., New

4. E. Schrédinger, Berliner Berichte 1930, 416; 1931, 418.

7. F. Winterberg, The Planck Aether Hypothesis, Carl Friedrich Gauss Academy of
Science Press, Reno, Nevada (2002).

8. F. Winterberg, Z. Naturforsch. 58a, 231 (2003).

10. S.J. Prokhovnik, The Logic of Special Relativity, Cambridge University Press, London

11. Y. Aharonov and D. Bohm, Phys. Rev. 115, 485 (1959).

13. R.L. Forward, Proceedings NASA Breakthrough Propulsion Workshop 1999, p.201.
14. K.Spekkens et al., The Astronomical Journal 129, 2119 (2005).

15. F. Winterberg, Acta Astronautica 51, 873 (2002).

16. S. Badiei, P.U. Anderson, L. Holmlid, International Journal of Mass Spectroscopy

17. F. Winterberg, 40° Congress of the International Astronautical Federation, October

39
UNCLASSIFIED S/F OR OPPICTAL USE ONT