DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
Headquarters United Stetes Air Force
Weshington 25, D. ¢.

SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD TO THE CHIEF oF STAFF, USAF

SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY BOARD REPORT ON AVRO PROJECT Ye

November 1954.

thle document consists of . pages
Copy Number 2 of 7 copies.

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
Headquarters United States Air Force
Washington 25, D. C.

Headquarters Unites States Air Force
Washington, D. Cc.

Dear Don:

In response to your request for SAB comments on the Avro
"Saucer" project, the SAB has taken the following action:

The Aircratt and Fropulsion Panels were briefed on September
28 by representatives of Hg. ARDC, at the time of the Fall meeting
of the Board in Omaba. The tentative conclusions of both panels
immediately after this briefing were to the effect that this pro-
ject warranted no more than limited support. However, to assure
thorough consideration of this project, I requested representatives
of these two ls to supplement the briefings given to them at
Omaha by a visit to A. V. Roe Canade Lid., Malton, Ontario.

With the advice of Clark Millikan and Dean Soterberg, a select

mage was chosen to conelude this study. It was composed of
an Soderberg, Chairman of the Propulsion Panel and senior menber

oe the group; Professor Ma: ; of the Aircraft wl: and Mr.

Donovan, who has been serving poth as a menber of the Aireri
and as liaison member with the Propuleaion Panel.

Pane 1.

The attached report of thia group is forward
representing the results of the SAB’s completed, study.

y approval,

Sincerely,

Scieatifie Advisory Board
ffice of the Chicf of Staff

ine losure

December 6, 1

2

Genera oh Jee He Doolittle A
office of the Ch <
Headquarters Unit soe

a

ee AK Lane:
a o

nate ve 2 4 er: ey « ES eg 4 we +} ’ We he ' : ings ae Sap-

We wed the A. V. Roe Company in’
availa
We present
We wish to
most courteous end well-planned
ble use of the evallable time.
The Yd is an esirplane of circuls
around @ rediel flow turbojet with the exhaus
fiected downward in an ennuler jet for take-of

tue ground. The oirplane le designed for supersonic

as

Ltvivude, under wnich condition the exhaus ;

s

aily rearwards. The sir is taken in vertically

One

hovering; for level flight the intak

ged to a normal

frontal inlet by a set of slides and doors. In later versions

i axial flow

radial engine has been replaced by radialiy dispose

turbojeta of conventional type. This modification wi

go ceovel-

congidered as an intermediate version which might simplify th

5

ae

pment procedures, but ag the radial engine has been more reelisti-~

cally appraised, it is now locked upon as en alternative form of

equal promise.

It ig evident thet the invention involves a whole array of for-

midable problems of research and development. Even in the smailest

versions the outer diameter of the redial flow turbine is about

twenty feet. The entire rotor must be supported on air bearings in

the radial as well as the axial direction, and it is evident that

the accompenying problems of mechanical design are very difficult.

The design requires that very large

} lb/a) be re;

lated by 8 complicated syst

on the inlet as well as on the outlet side. The problems of atability

in hovering, in forwerd flight, end in the trensition between the to

odes patureliy demand considerable attention, The many structural
problems of an unconventional nature likewise require much study. It
is evident, even with only a casual study, that the process of devel~

ae

% would be lengthy and costly in the extreme, even by present

atanderds in military aircraft, The justification for entering into

such an under
jectives whi
ose objectives.

.e@n of the Y2 is based is

eseure build-up increases the lift

ich @ fashion as to indicate

round effect, woul:

tein ite ettitude. The
ined by A. V. Ree in

cause the appropria’

not investiga nd the pertinent measurements not

tants, data are not eva
L0n factors. There are

tation factors

si

woe

figuration to such an extent that performance in level flight ap-

pears to have been semiousl, compromised. Since forvard flight ia,

tant function of any airplane, we have attempted

after all, the impor

to examine into the inventor's claim for the flight characteristics

Y GBPS o

with particul

tor has advanced claims for favorable forward flight

basis tl redial flow engine has a very

gatio (about .22), that the spee
on the projected area of the plane (about 600, excluding air in

and thet the drag cherecteriatice of the plane are

6 settle

very favorable. While not enough information is availabl

all of these points, we are compelled to take exception to all th
of these claims. The specific engine weight ia no longer
would not in iteelf justify the radiel engine development. Moreover,

the radial engine possesses certain inherent limitations in pressure

ratio end component efficiencies which are detrimental to good. fuel

consumption in c gon wi’ 20 ial flow type. The shift to con-

wontional turbojets has, of course, altered the situation, but it has —

on the engine. The high

ie ia % duo the fact that all discussions Bo §
6 around ol “ With no pay load. The situation v
_gespect to drag ap) 8 to us the most serious, however, $i.

that the drag may have been underestimated by a factor of two. Very

th the distribution of

sent, but no

ime cd} this point

ffers from more conv

entional types only

ng edge of the

does not. appear to possess an)

origin adial engine or with

turbojets. The pressure recove

to be poor for both «

ernatives; even with
of details it could not app

1s, The ducting on. %

difficulties

information to indieate that this is so. No basic lews appear to he

1 transgressed in the design. It is merely a question of overempha-

sis on the hovering characteristics without any assurance that the

level. flight. characteristics would be telerable.
in arriving at a recommendation for action by the United States
Airy Fores, we have attempted to bring into focus several considerat
The kind of imaginatlve thinking shout unconventional
the inventor has displayed certainly has a place, and there
hapa not enough of 14 in the pleoning operations of the USar.
scheme of thie Kind ie ready for more serious exploitation
certain considerations are essential.
of hardhesded thecretical and experimental «
tmat such a 1 procedure, if epplied to aircraft developmen?
yours ago, would have prevented powered flight is
The development of an engine euch as the Ye, if it 46 to be
to a Flight article of some kind, is an undert

(ude that it simply cannot be undertaken c

particularly with reference to level flight.
serious lack of attempt at a systematic exploration of time various

key serodyneamic phenomena involved. There must also be a set of

goals for the alrcraft, whieh would vlece i+ in a class ahead of

' " other developments

et

formance, if the basic ideas should be

le of realisation. We do not. feel. thet the objectives of

the devel

i glearly formulated. In particular, we

pt have b

on @ preoccupation with

al that there has be

the hovering char<

) more direct ess

entials of

eirerert heve been Lost sight of ..

We do not question the ability of the A. ¥. Roe Ce

undertake successfully eny well-conceived project in the aix

fleld which lies within thelr ma’

Pio). resources. Our visit con-

in jot aircraflt

the suspicion, how

ever, thet the responsible ¢ ere in the A. V. Roe engineering

se é os i sae PE gy ' ae © < sonata it
groups @re not thoro e ig project. it is manie

festly impossible for us to prove this contention or to make this

assertion officially with the company. We feel convinced,

ante or 0 Aw ¥ @ Roe

organization have not

ion of this pr

inventor, who im

gimeation, but who

On the basis of the above, we recommend against y contract:

support for this project until much greater potentialities have be

demonstrated by A. ¥. Roe'’s ow analysie.

SLY yours,

e

Mt Beti/ erh/ 55867

Le TO make a final report on a special project assigned to Mr. C. .
Bollun, Sr., for the purpose of investigating possible Soviet capabilities
for developing and producing a Vertical Take-Off Aircraft which -— be
similar in appearance to a "Flying Saucer",

2. In the Magazine Section of the Washington Post, dated 13 December
1953, there appeared am article which reported the development of a flying |
: e Canada, Limited of Toronto. The ap gas eed ae
Lt. Gen. Donald L. Putt, Director of ARDC , |
_ wiewed this flying saucer. Other information given in the art
Mr. Bollum with the thou that here was the first factual evidenc
was possible to build a ing saucer. If it was possible for Canada to oo

build a flying saucer, then it was also possible for the Soviets to bu
one, Mr, Bollum requested that he be authorized to initiate a special p
ject for the purpose of determining Soviet capabilities in this field. Sauk
_ permission was granted by Col. fT. W. ms Chief of ase Future oT

Branch. | :

RAF, the suis was , tecuckat yy ol L
@ patent filed by the 4.V. Roe people en a Mana entitled “i dae-Barbine : :
_ sot = _ application for this device was first filed in :
o irate eal saigrbad out the feasibility of the
Baltimore to discuss the |
| Sat bt Cel. Vk
: peasiek first prerpeers the Saterka\ion vacerding the application of the
- Coanda Effect to the Project "Y¥" desig. Several more visits were made to —
ARDC and after Pychadeeng. | the ag ets eh several engineers and officers, |

net of the aiuienes of Lies datowestl oh scasetiing oss
herann Visise Saucer projects. ‘These were rumored to have existed at the
end of World War II, ot vee authorized for Bollum and Wainwright

result of this trip copies of the pertinent information were forwarded to . co

ake ile ee Nt Ottawa. In brief, there is information on four

&. George Klein who, as of April 1953 resided in Hamburg,
claims to have been chief engineer of all flying disc projects, How

ever, his principal importance seems to be that he knew of the exist-

ence of such projects and has called attention to other Germans in ie

be Otte Habermohl, who has not been heard of since the end of
the war, is reported to have had a project for a 16 meter diameter fly-
ing saucer which was test. ene on 14 February 1945 at Helice,

Ce Rudolf Schriever, who ated in 1945, was a designer/test pilot
BMW Works at Prague. He is epevied to have constructed a flying
saucer, which at a trial in April 1945 failed to leave the ground.

ad. Robert Miethe, whe is supposed to have entered the U. . is :
1953, is reported to have constructed a 435 meter diameter flying
called the "V-7", which is reported to have flown with a crew of thre
in 1044, In August 1944 the Ceeko-Moraveke Worke in Prague is reporte
to have received a production order for a short series, but none
finished by the end of the war, Miethe remained in Preslen, when,
escaped in an ME-165 one jump ahead of the Russians, The Russians capture
three of ostoatied principal assistants and his workshops. Miethe, seers
to the Canadians, came into this country as an emigrant.

It is of interest to note that in March of 1954, a man using the
Berberich and who claims to have entered this country in 1953, forwarded t:
a Senator from Ohie a manuscript and drawings depicting how he would build
a flying saucer. These were in turn forwarded to the Legislation and Liaison
Division of Headquarters, USAF, who sent them te AFOIN. AMWOIN forwarded the
documents to ATIC for translation and evaluation, Mr. Bollum was assured by
Mr. Arcier of ATIC that he would receive a copy of the resulta ae soon ag
ATIC had completed the translation. Te date mo such information has been.

le di and therefore Mr. Bollum is not able to ve-aua the results obtained.
The big question would seem to be whether or not this man Berberich could be
Miethe,.

5. Upon return to Washington Bollum and Wainwright again went to ARDC
Baltimore where they were briefed on the U.S. interest in Canada's project
and informed of the political and international — involved. At
this time both were requested to handle the whole project on a sensitive
basis until notified by ARDC that evranceneants ives U.S. and Canada had
been completed. In accordance with such request, briefings were Limi ted to
General Samford, General Lewis, Colonel Morrow, Colonel Eriksen, Colonel
True, Colonel Wolfe, Captain Reomey, USN, and Lt. Colonel Farrior.

6. In April Colonel True received permission for an Air Reom gp
of key APOIN personnel, which was attended by the Branch and Division Ghiefs.
About the lst of May a request came for briefing the Classen Committee, who
wer considering the future material requirements for the Strategic Air
Command, On 26 May 1954 key analysts of the Rand Corporation, Santa Monica,
California, were briefed a% the requess ef Colonel True and permission was

he

J poe to brief the engineering personnel of the Los Angeles Air Force

henducss cena d Office.

7. #m "Air Force Only" restriction was dropped in June 1954 and the
following have been briefed since: Chief of Naval Operations and Staff,
Chief of Staff U.S. Army and Staff, Commandant of the Marine Corps and
Steff, Key Personnel of ClA-OSI, Mr. Hissletein of ATIC, Intelligence per~
somnel of SAC, TAG, ADC, ARDC, AFSS, AVSSOP, NSA, and Requirements Officer
of the Air War College. A copy of the briefing is attached as TAB A,

8. On 15 June 1954, Bollum and Wainwright visited the i Roe ‘Limited,
Toronte, Gamada. One day was spent discussing Project "Y" and informatio
German and/or Soviet interest in such unconventional aircraft. Mr, ¥:
the Chief Engineer on the project and designer of the radial flew jet
demonstrated by use of laboratory models all the principles of the Coanda
Effect, the air bearings, and the control system contemplated, Such Sinee-
atrations left little doubt in the minds of amyone present that the project
would be a success, Mr. Frost had previously gone to Europe to interrogate _
George Klein and in addition had had access to many flying saucer reports
from Hurepe, He firmly stated that there was no doubt in his ménd that the
Soviets are ahead of the Western Nations in the development of a true verti-
cal take-off aircratt.

9. Recent news articles indicate that both the U.S. and U.K. have other
projects in being which are in the field of Vertical Take-Off Aircraft (V0).

1O. Im conclusion, it appears that the chances of success are good for
Project "Y" or Project "Ladybird" as it is known in the USAF. If this is the
rough in the aeronautical “State of the Art" has cecurred which |
nize aircraft design and eir warfare. If we accept the possi-~
bilities of such designs them we must also conclude that the Seviets must at
the least have the capability te have such aircraft almest as soon as the
Western Nations, At the other end of the possibilities, we must consider
the chance that the Soviets are several years ahead of the U.S. at this time.
Perhaps one of the most importent results of this imvestigation has been that
ae unconventional aircraft are not considered as fantastic as previous”and
emphasis will shift from disproving flying saucer reports to proving such
poser The effect of a successful flight will be far reaching. A new look
will have to be taken at the design of many categories of military equipment;
i.e. radars, guided missiles, armament, antiaircraft artillery, etc. It is
possible that such capabilities could very radically change estimates for the
period of 1960-65

oi -ecommendations have
It was = at the time that the various: — of the Directorate
ine *- a this

agsume , any responsibility 4 ie field. Indonially, ATIC personnel have
indicated to Mr. Bollum opinion that the success of Project "Ye" is very §§=
doubtful and that it is not expected that ATIC will shew any great inter-_
est or take any action other than that normally taken by the Unidentified —
Flying Object. Personae. As a result of this inactivity, very little
new has been accomp the last few months toward ascertaining Soviet
capabilities. I 8 therefore recommended that the following actions de. =
requested by the Director of Intelligence, — :

 . Inaguuch as Vertical Take-Off aiveratt similar in appearance a .
a ‘flying saucer will be test flown in a matter of 18 months with a possible
_ production within three years, it is believed appropriate at this time to
_ divorce the reports, analysis, and estimates of earth produced flying saucers __
from the UFO activity at ATIC. Such items of intelligence should eae handled
through n rmal material and equipment ghannels in the D/I. _ . |

* AD reports of sipsbines f UFO's in areas imnediately adjacent

_ to the Soviet Union and Satellites should be re-examined in ligh
possibility that the Soviets could be well ahead of the U.S. and (
the development and service testing ef such an aircraft.

ce. A section should be inserted in the Basic Air Intelligence :
_ Requirement Manual and an AFM should be prepared on “intel is gence tabi eee
| Guidance Manual. on Vertical Take-Off Aircraft".

| d, Necessary support should be requested of other eoversnsat neoncten -
in an attempt te locate Robert Miethe and Bruno Berberich. After location of _

the above men, steps should be taken to have. = nero? by pereennel
familiar =“— the entire background on this project.

, _ A project should be established to estimate ons nes :
applications for such an aircraft and the extent to =o =e —
desi, for other military equi ad
—_—, a short discourse on airfield requirements might be included.

ch 4 collection requirement should be placed on all agencios “a

ge a intelligence estimates for the 1960-65 ;
a statement on the possibility of cperational use of saucer | s
and the atfect ef such use on. wher equipment estimates, —

it i este eb that an Taki viGaal who is | eek on th
of this project be appointed as coord: ator for the Director ef
HQ, USAF, on Unconventional Vertical Take Thi
aAAd Sion to hie function with the Director of Isteliicmes, shoul
five liaison contact between the D/I and other interested co
: agencies 1 when  Feqeanse are eve sor briefings, etc,

12. Subject matter will not be submitted for ‘inclusion in the D/I
Policy Book or the Daily Staff Digest. —

ACTION F

14. Inasmuch as Mr. Bollun is the most knowledgeable person im the
D{/I on the subject of this project, it is recommended that he be appointed
coordinator for the Director of Intelligence and that he be euthorized to
proceed as necessary te accomplish the desired results on the recommenda-

16 made above,

. ge Mw, Kirton, bh! 1 N-2C1 ~ Ext. 5ocdy
¥. b, Zoller, AFOIN-2C = Ext, 71577 es
J. Je Morrow, AFOIN-3 - Ext. 71110 pf

The purpose of this briefing is two-fold. First, I will att |

tell you of a project being financed by the U.S, Air Force and a a. r
thereof to dispel to the greatest extent possible any doubt in

that such a project is feasible and desirable. Second, I will

show that there is a very good possibility that

nation to successfully fly such an aircraft. In order not to tak

time with uninteresting technical considerations and information,

make the first part very brief. However, if anyo Orn
ation on the design, performance, operation, etc., 1 am prepared to go
into a more detailed discussion complete with slides at the end of the
regular briefing.

The "State of the Art" being one of the most important consi erations
in a technical estimate, we have attempted to ascertain what ef i :
ing made in thie field. Through various sources it was determined tha
ware soreness authority on the theories surrounding such an aircraft was

Gk Frost, an aeronautical engiaasi prouently aula
Ros Limited of G a. Some indication of Mr, Frost's capability may be
derives from the fact that he was project engineer on the OF-100 in
a3 The principal sources of information covered in this brief
were ARDC, Bai tinore; _, Washington; DAI, Ottawa; and A. V. Roe
Limited of Canada going any further, I wish to emphasize that |
the interest of the HQ, USAF D/I in this subject is solely from the
fore! aspect and particularly as it concerns the Soviet capabilities,
hasig that we may give to the Research and Development ~~
in: this country ee a benus and mot intentional,

** eee ee eee

ohieis a flying saucer, Thi

atrictly a new ——— This particular iden hia been “ms existence for
several years and mac
‘Great Britain,
the development of the pias tel In aay « of. ‘195.

ent agreed to finance the project to the extent of peta
due to some belief that Canada might be somewhat limited in facilities sid
finances to complete the development in the least possible time, and the

danger that a foreign power not entirely friendly
2 e desired results sooner, the USAF has made
Go: dian government and A.¥. Roe Company to take
ent effort. The prime outeas? appears to be
with the A.V. Roo Canada,Limited and upon my last visit to the factory,
_ they were well ee ae way in the preparation of drawings and pessibly —
at this time are starting fabrication of parts. As of the eat report
kmown to us, it was expected that the Plight test of the first model would
take place in the Spring of 1956, By this time some of you would like to

gee @ picture of this aircraft. I have two artist conceptions (Slide 1),

fhis slide is to depict landings and take-offs from other than established
airfields. (Slide 2). ‘This slide is for the purpose of showing a naval
or marine use by launching from a submarine. ia earlier model called
Project "Y" or Project "OMEGA" which would have used the same engine ~~
(Slide 3) but would have been flat on the aft end similar in shape to
the letter Omega. Two versions of small research type Vertical secagoaagae
aircraft, identified as Project "Y" and Project "Y2" have :
_pigned. Each project is essentially a simple proposal.

of @ very large radial. flow gas cerciusmes engi

to form a flying wing

esigned around a tarbo-Jet eng!

The engines are designed to fly "edg
as es sai case of = more Gonrentie nel ty

2ac ations of pea rotor.
Such an aircraft would have some very fundamental advantages: such @

The manufacturing simplicity that ; results.
The much greater t thrust/ weight ratio,

, The very high thrust/frontal area patio. -
The gyroscopic stability.
The ability to operate without prepared le ndine ; fields: this
being the most important consequence of the trust weight
ratio being much greater than one. .

_the Popa wyn design which utilized the same engine, but va a te

. : Cece Siena pat whatsoever i reat
cian the two designs is _ _ she first dosten required su: of
or elevons while the ses tan ,

' aireréft and the ground which eliminates the possibility of severe impact on
landing. Tests have shown that the jet lift is increased several times over
that of a flat disc near the groun a. tages. of such a » Sooke are as
’ follows:

It is safer and more acceptable to pilets. 2
The gyroscopic plane is parallel with the ground, |
improves the use of the aircraft in the transport category.

‘(Slide 5). In general, the orepeses aircraft consists of a very large radial /
flow gaa turbine engine disposed between two concentric rings, It is estimated
that the engine will produce nearly 50,000 lbs, Sea Level Static Thrust, De
pending on the final design and balance the circular plan form may need to be :
modified to accommodate trim flaps. The air intakes are also circular in plan, |
the skins extending across the central part of the plane, The pilot, fuel and
disposable loads are containéd in the central compartment which is well insul-
ated against aerodynamic heating by the fuel. fhe aircraft is shown in the |

_ take-off configuration with both air intakes closed and relieving doors on the
top intake open all the way around. This arrangement permits the air to sink
in and ever into the intake annulus, then radially outwards to the jet ex:
which are normal to the surface around the whole err about 15 inches

from the edge .

(Slide 6) ‘Typical streamlines of the airflow through the aircraft are shown
in this slide which represents any section through the circular form of the
_aireraft. This aircraft will have neither an ei] system nor a hydraulic |
system, inasmuch as the engine is air lubricated and there is no retractible
under carriage nor hydraulic operated controls employed. The control equip-
ment in the cockpit will be mach simpler. Normal flight and navigational
instruments and equipment will be installed in the aircraft. A simplified
form of ejector seat is fitted, as high ejection velocities are mot considered _
necessary for this tailless aircraft, ]

Now for) a . few general operational characteristics. ‘The first model to be
tested is expected to be able to have speeds up to Mach. 2.5, fly at altitudes
up to 85,000 feet, and have a range of 1500 n.m. (one way). A later model
with a diameter of 100 ft. and configured as ga og recon, or in
version is exp ve
intercontinental wparatiosa. Time to climb from
would be about. a minutes.

Let us now veviun wietly ¥ what we have in the setting. We have an ai
craft capable of taking off and landing vertically climbing to altitude in
an exceedingly short period of time, and able to cruise at very high —
In addition, it cam hever, and has great lifting capabilities, 4nd what

this mean? No requirements for long runways of concrete or other hard

No need fer the new type aircraft carriers. Amy naval vessel cf sufficient

size can carry an aircraft of this type. We have here an aircraft capable of ~~
great maneuverability and high altitudes, What would such capabilities mean

to an invasion force. And how about its uses for pursuit, reconnaissance,

bulance, bomber, or transport. fhe artist conception of its use with a
@gubmarine is a per enianl7 tently con biansien. ‘The installation of arman

4

- ds not seen to present any specific difficulty. Guns er rockets may be
- mounted in the nose, or to fire out of the intake. Similarly, radar may
be installed in a nese pod or if scan is considered adequate, inside the
intakes, where the drag penalty will be less. New types of side look
antennas may work very well on this type of configuration. Guided Missiles
may be carried externally. A larger bomber version of the aircraft is
visualized as having more available payload space in the central well.
fhe aircraft under study has an ample margine of thrust/weight to lift
additional military load from the ground. Performance penalty will there-
fere only be felt at a somewhat reduced range and ceiling. Top speed is
unlikely to be affected, since the drag due to lift is extremely small for
this condition. Larger aircreft may be expected te have a longer ranze,
bat no detail figures are yet available. However, intercontinental ranges
do not appear to be impossible,

_ When euch an aircraft has been proven by tests, it will no doubt have
@ great effect on the design and requiremenis for many other types of rhea
tary equipment. Let us for a minute review some of the changes that
be apparent.

Dae to the speeds involved, it is possible that the present type
of siveras radar will be entirely inadequate, And, due to the icpacorerd :
speeds and altitudes, our _— designed ground radar equipmen ent
be useless for most purpos:

‘The presently known G/M designs would

hardly be ge eer Cog use goon eee bombers with speeds up to Mach, 2.5
80,000 ft. mre | if those bombers had a good —,
for maneuvering.

As one of. the principal requirements for 5AM appears to be to overcome the
time delay in getting interceptor A/C into the air and to the target, it
is possible that the job could be done better with an interceptor model of
the gyroplane,.

500 nem. ak. or a chat alate Yamched from 200 to 300 ; nem
: with the inherent errors of such a system?

From an intellicence aspect this type of aircraft should be watched —
very closely. Mr. Frost has stated that the idea is not entirely his own,
All of the basic information on the first model has been available to other
nations for many years, especially those nations in Central Hurope. Mr. Frost
believes that other engineers could very easily have duplicated his effort.

- While the application of the "Coanda Effect" appears to be Mr. Frost's idea,
he feels that such an application could have been apparent to engineers an
Germany and the Soviet Bloc nations. Two particular reports, although of

- low reliability, are of interest. The first deals with an individual who,
while riding a bicycle down a country road in one of the Satellite countries,
observed a flying saucer descending from above and hovering above the ground.
He stated that suddenly the saucer accelerated saree? and ee OTE Bs sp es
and altitude wobbulated with a slight
tain speed was attained, Mr. Frost has bean ied as ma
_that his prototype would act in the same manner if full _
after hovering. ‘the second report deals with a PW fieldhand who, with others,
was ot work when a sancer-shaped aircraft landed in a nearby field. He re-
ported that & soyaft had § % markings on it and that ome or more
persons climbed out of the aircraft, Immediately police or some sort of
authority appeared on the scene, placed a cordon around the aircraft and
arrested this man's co-workers, The informant escaped and reported the
incident. While it is admitted that such reports may be fabricated, the

_ possibility cannot be overlooked that the information is essentially true.
As an example, in the electronic field a review of low reliability reports
has indicated that a large proportion of the sources gave an honest
‘description of what they observed and that intelligence analysts failed to
identify the equipment from such descriptions, Ye have reports of the
French interest in flying saucer designs and of reported German activities
in this field during the Werld War. Of the Germans supposedly in this field
of activity we have four names. George Klein, who in April 1953 resided in —
burg, claims to have been the chief engineer of all flying disc projects..

importance seems to be that he knew of the existence
of such eeateete ‘end has called attention to other Germans in the field,

_ Otte Habermohl, who has not been heard of since the end ef the war, is re-
ported to have had a project for a 16 meter diameter flying saucer which was
test flighted on 1¢ February 1945 at Holice, Rudelf Schriever, who died in
1945, was a designer/test pilot at BMW Wo Pragu: ig re

have constructed a flying saucer, which at a trial in April 1945 failed to
leave the ground, Hebert Miethe, who is supposed to have entered the u. Se
in 1953, is reported to have constructed a 43 meter diameter flying se
(v7) which was flown with a crew of three in 1944, ra the

_ Cesko-Moravake Works in Prague is reported to have ose a preketion
order for a short series, but none was finished by the end of the war,

_Miethe remained in Breslaw, whence he escaped in an ME-163 one jump ahead
of the Russians. The Russians captured three of Miethe's principal assist
ants and his workshops. In March of 1954, a mam by the name of Bruno
Berbevich, who claims te have entered this country in October 1953, forwarded
to the Senator from Ohio @ manuscript and drawings of how he would build a
flying saucer. These were in turn sent te the Legislation and Liaison Division

of Headquarters, USAF, who sent them to AFOIN. General Samford's office had
them sent to ATIC for translation from German to English. The big question
is "Could this man be Robert Miethe?" last, projects on the Sonne | Beteok :

; nave =e Obkee Satellite per dciphceasaee i tl
mh. as two years heat of Gauecn tk this ia ; Guch a ae cane, the
intercepter application would have a serious effect on the ar ine tiveness

of woe Soviet Air Defense capabilities. |.

LT

We have presented to you some evidence that flying saucers are within

the capabilities of the existing “state of the art" in this country and

Canada. ‘The "state of the art" is well kmown in European countries, ‘The
Coanda effect has been known to all countries and the application is net
beyond the capabilities of the Soviets. It is possible that German projects
for flying saucers existed at the end of the war, ‘fhe n !
possible teps in this field is supposed to be im the U.S. now. We have
reports on eye witnesses of flying saucers in Seviet territory.

It 1s recommended thats

1. ‘The entire Saveliacence community Lee alerted to a possible Soviet
activity in this field.

¢ files on foreign Givin wasbers should be reviewed

should be interrogated by intelligence analysts
round on existing intelligence,

4, Robert Miethe should be found. Possibly Miethe could have ch

his name to Bruno Berberich or seme other alias.

5. A collection requirement should be placed on all agencies in the
field including the Attaches.

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

Article "the Flying Dise" in December Issue of the air
—s Digest

ones la connectic “+
ca aircraft. I stated our pos

Secre f the Scientiric aoe 1 © ccact (an
have revealed the following: :

The extent of coordi

Despite the unfavorable tone of the Scientific
_ Advisory Board, report,responsible key technicians |
within DCS/D are split into two groups on the
feasibility of the project.

In view of this feeling within pcs/D, Gene

Putt's letter to ARDC oe last week in Decent

was, in effect, a compromiseg position. The

letter directed ARDC to award a contract to

A. V. Roe, Ltd., for certain wind tunnel tests, ~~
and further indicated that additional U. 5
development funds would be decided on the

_ basis of the data analysis produced .

area _ general Watson's last visit here he discussed with me
ad bee repared for his signature by one of his
staff but which he peti to sign to you because of its tone. He feels

strongly, however, that the monitorship of this project should be the

province of ATIC and differs greatly in his personal views with the |
edueems in AID

| randum for Record (Tab C) exr
of the enter of OIN-2 into this project whieh sriatiy ws gO
two considerations;

a. A feeling in OIN-2C that this arajest was “hot” a
no one else was acting for OIN.

ilability and "entree" afforded

Wo action has been taken on “y of the recommendations mac
in the M/R by Colonel Morrow and he has instructed Mr. Bollum verbally

to discontinue further work and briefings on the project.

7. Im view of the above I offer the following recommendations:

: Because of the divided opinions within and outside of the
Air Staff on the feasibility of Project "Y", no further articles or
ings on this project should be accomplished without your persona.
(Colonel Adams and Colonel Morrow concur.)

state the case » for Project ys el i ae chjecties ecu ‘ites ae
to do so —— only serve to further "muddy the waters.”

+ @. At their earliest convenience, General Watson and Colonel
y should have e discussion directed toward the transition of ‘
sibility for monitorship of a "y" from OIN-2C to ATIC. |
2] Morrow and General Watson conc

2

ad. No reply should be ma nm
“Executive Secretary of the Gciectific Mince Be

Lt Coionct, ,
Directorate of ‘Intelligence

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
_ HEADQUARTERS: UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
_ WASHINGTON 25, Dc.

ls December 1954.

y of @ recent re-
tudy of the "fly-

| st eneion of: techni~ |
oe undne ss: \ and optimiatas expectatiess co wree =~ the
on “The Flying Disc" published in the Decembe
the Air —* ace Digest.

Inclosure
1. Avro rpt, cy 2

Office of i ew State

AFCSA og / .

HES

pasoauneuy eseeiay ERIS Wrote

ERUSRER UTA AAT eR EN SISTENT NRE SSN RSET SEN ULATED TU UOTE

COVER SHEE

ROUTING

Initial “IN” column to denote review prior to action. Initial “OUT” poluma fo deacts view of compel action. _(K for |
action; y for coordination.) , :

1 —— (Ce toee, Cees)

rwarded for your approval and signature.

Co Lonel, USE? | -
Directorate of Intelligence oo

ORIGIN OF BASIC

[suBsect

COVER SHEE De

ORIGIN OF BASIC

OIN-2C4 _ . TASS (6neD “BY
SUBJECT

Memorandum for Record

ROUTING

Initial "IN" column to denote review prior to action. Initial "OUT" column to denote review of completed ac
(X for nah el coordination.)

COMMENTS(Use reverse, if necessary)

2 to the RCAF ec taining the tm
ix gs ‘Tals peper should }

Divectareta of Inteliigence

DITIONS OF TH S FORM MAY BE USED.

AFOIN-2ch
Col. MacDuft/bps/52466
w/ll duly 1955

PROBLEM:

Ll. @O eveluete Ac Jj crew sightings end ground radar returns of oh eae in
the Newfoundland area (419 0N/ 5950W).

FACTS AND DISCUSSION:

®. OIN-2C directed the OIN-2C committee on & July to evaluate the 6 day
Ke 9/ sightings and GCI radar returns over Newfoundland as su riged and detailed
inCAF IN 15592, dtd 6 July 55 and CAP IN 90703 dtd 7 July 55.

3. In arriving at the following conclusions the committee reviewed reports
Summarizing the incident, the crew interrogations and the NAC evaluation of
the incident. In addition certain new U.S. end Canadian developments in high
performance unconventional aircraft were considered.

CONCLUSIONS:

kh. It was concluded that no intelligence is available to support or deny
the existence of unconventional Soviet aircraft comparable to those under .
consideration in the US and Canada and providing performance such as reported.

5. The committee was unable to explain the simultaneous ground radar
returns and aircrew visual sightings, and tentatively accepts the Ni evaluation
attributing the incident to electrical phenomenon on the one hand and mis-
interpretation of the sightings by alrerew members on the other.

6, It was further cone tuded thet this incident should be classified as ‘UFOB.

7_. QUole tte is not considered suitable for inclusion in D/I Policy Book |
or the Dally Stell Digest.

8. Due to the serious technological threat should unfriendly nations succeed
| dn developing bigh performance unconventional aircraft increased effort should
be made by all collection agencies to penetrate the Soviet Research and Development
establishments and programs in order to give the U.S. adequate warning of any
developments in this area.

9. itis Porcher recommended that in the event of future tneidents or thie
nature Tighter Scrambles be effected without delay.

COORDINATION: _
APOIN-2Ch, Col. MacDuff, ext. 52466047"
APOIN-CCl, Ut. Col. Farrior, ext. sg WF
APOIN~2C2, Col. Gould, ext. 56200 W
AFOIN-2C5, Col. Gwynne, ext. 55538 a

AF HQ-s0(Z¢y 21 June 4s) DEPARTMEN —E AIR FORCE Por 4

met AIR STAFF SUMMARY SHEET
ore [wean sonon [mins [>

aan

wae
2 let Request WAC for Immediate Fighter Scramble Against Flying

SUMMARY | : :

Ls On 6 duly the crew of | a KC-97 tanker re vorted the y etabitne of an unidentified

wroundland area (ho10N/595 OW). At the time of the sighting a —

GC , Obte ained a niger return of an object which apparently was
‘identical to the one the KC-97 crew had under visual observation. A committee, appointed |
by this Directorate to evaluate this os aie reviewed reports summarizing the incident
by the Northeast a ‘ommand. The committee tentatively attributed the sighting to
electrical phenomenon visual nlsinverpretation by aircrew members. At the same time,
however, the committee aaa the possibility that the object. miene have been an
high performance unconventional aireraft. ‘his Directorate is of the opinion that the

evelopment of such an aircraft by an unfriendly nation would constitute a ——

| tec slogical threat to the United States, and therefore every effort must be made

identify sightings in the future.

2. Im its discussion of methods to be used obtain identification of objects
| _ in a similar fashion in the future, » the committee concluded that the method
ing the most likelihood ef success would be interception of the object by fighte
at : of this nature fighters

FRANK B. CHAPPELL
Colonel USAPF

Directorate of Intelligence |

1 Imel
Proposed Msg to
Cdr NEAC

OO lac7e

ROB EOE

0 incidents. The incidents

were 45 Pebpoty :

ightings by RB-47 crews in Ce nec

‘5. This item is not suitable for inc
e Daily Staff Digest.

HSER

anti

NAA

oomph

Ses

EIS

Sy

oS

RES

ee

Ee

ae

Bes

eS ea

Lelsesstetenihtiuniobe tic trenierAanenaAAnia nate

Bien it aa ay Als

Sees neNGE MTSE ua OTERO ENT

EES,

GORSEESEK

ETT

aS ssanre

Spee

ae

OE

BONELESS

ES

See esas aliamsmeeesies

seedamoasitatn

Ce es

yasesiseasniblesendtansctummih eae

LER EUR ANA RONS

ani

PS

SUE EUS voce

OTT

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT; CIRVIS Program

1. In accordance with AFR 200-3, Hq MATS, is responsible
for contacting commercial airlines and pilots to indoctrinate
them and secure their participation in the CIRVIS program as
outlined in the JANAP 146 series.

2. Intelligence Division, Hq MATS, has done an out-
standing job in this indoctrination, having contacted commercial
airlines, the National Business Aircraft Association, and the
pilots in both. They have secured the cooperation of all
companies and associations through writing a multitude of
letters. They have gone into the field and personally lectured
to regional pilots' meetings and have succeeded in getting a
real interest in CIRVIS aroused for the first time. This has
been a tremendous task and has only been accomplished by an’ :
exceptional effort. However, the only way to keep the interest
at a peak is to keep emphasizing the importance of the CIRVIS
program to them. ‘MATS * efforts must continue.

3. AFOIN-1A-P, wherein lies the Ee for moni-
toring the CIRVIS program for AFOIN, and in part for Hq USAF,
has long felt that MATS should be complimented in writing on
pee fine job, and at the same time be urged to continue their

am. It is felt that any letter of recognition or
ndation should come originally from CINCONAD and an in-
formal suggestion has been made along these lines.

: 4. However, this seems like a good opportunity for
us to easily and naturally show our awareness of and satisfac-
tion for a job well done. Hence, the forwarding of the
ole rea from ADC by the letter indicating our apprecia-
: } “a gies ee we _phonta take this chance to help