UNCLASSIFIED//POI\ OFFICIAL USE Oiltt
Positron Aerospace Propulsion
Prepared by:
Acquisition Support Division (DW0-3)
Defense Warning Office
Directorate for Analysis
Defense Intelligence Agency
Author:
AAP Person 69
Administrative Note
COPYRIGHT WARNING: Further dissemination of the photographs in this publication is not authorized.
This product is one in a series of advanced technology reports produced in FY 2009
under the Defense Intelligence Agency, Defense Warning Office's Advanced Aerospace
Weapon System Applications (AAWSA Pro ram. Comments or uestions pertaining to
this document should be addressed to AAP Person 1
, AAWSA Program
Manager, Defense Intelligence Agency, ATTN: CLAR/ DWO-3, Bldg 6000, Washington,
ii

Contents
Positron Energy Conversion for Onboard Power............................................... 18
Figures
Figure 1. Specific Energy for Chemical, Nuclear and Antimatter Materials............. 1
iii

UNCLASSIFIED/J FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Figure 8. BOMARC and Talos Ramjet-Assisted Missiles........................................... 8
Figure 15. Conceptual 110 Watt Positron Closed Cycle Generator Based on the
Figure 18. Proposed Undulator-Based Positron Source for the International
Figure 10. Artist's Rendition of a Four-Engine Positron SSRV............................... 11
Figure 11. Solid-Core Positron Rocket Engine With a Hot-Bleed Configuration..... 12
Figure 13. Modified Sanger Photon Rocket Concept ............................................. 17
Figure 14. Closed Brayton Cycle Using Positron Annihilation ............................... 18
NASA Glenn Research Center Stirling Radioisotope Generator (SRG) .. 18
Figure 16. Mars Trajectories (X-Coordinates Defined in Direction of Aries) ......... 20
Tables
Table 3. Total Positron Requirement for SSRV With a Dry Mass of 60,500 kg ....... 10
Table 4. Comparison of Space Propulsion and Power Systems - Solid Core ......... 13
Table 5. Comparison of Three Positron Propulsion Concepts for Mars Mission ..... 17
Table 6. Positron and Antiproton Expected Costs in the Next 10 Years ................ 23
iv

Positron Aerospace Propulsion
Introduction
Antimatter is considered an extremely attractive fuel for aerospace propulsion
because of its enormous advantage in energy density over all other known
sources of energy. However, because antimatter does not occur naturally and
is unstable in the presence of matter, no vehicles have ever flown using it.
After a short overview of the various aerospace applications of antimatter, this
paper provides a detailed analysis of air-breathing turbojets and turbo-ramjet
missiles, as well as rockets for manned interplanetary missions. It discusses
new methods of producing and storing large numbers of antielectrons, or
positrons, and compares their costs with those of antiprotons. Finally, the
paper considers the prospects for the first, modest demonstration of positron
propulsive flight within the next 10 years. Interplanetary missions on
positron-propelled spaceships are described in detail, with estimates of
positron requirements for each mission. Standalone positron power systems
are described briefly.
Studies of positrons as a fuel for aerospace propulsion applications have been
sponsored by the Air Force Research Laboratory, Eglin Air Force Base, Florida,
and the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts, Atlanta, Georgia. This paper is
an anthology of that work and not a general review of antimatter propulsion.
The positron was predicted by Dirac in 19291 and discovered by Anderson in
1932.2 Along with the antiproton, which was discovered in 1954,3 the positron
has the largest specific energy of any known material. Because aerospace
propulsion performance is ultimately limited by specific power, this advantage
was immediately appreciated. However, compared with chemical sources of
energy, positrons presented new and serious production and storage
challenges.
Antimatter has a long history of appearing in science fiction literature, dating
to a 1942 short story in Astounding Science Fiction and the 1949 book Seetee.
It later appeared in the Star Trek television and film series and continues to be
an appealing subject for contemporary books and films, such as Angels and
Demons.
Positron aerospace propulsion is now entering a critical period owing to new
technologies that bear on production and storage issues. To their advantage,
positrons, unlike nuclear fission and antiprotons, present no radiation or
environmental safety problems.
V

UNCLASSIFIED/JFOR OFFICIAL USE 014[ I
Antimatter
Antimatter appears in the form of fundamental particles that have their sign of electric
charge reversed from their matter counterpart. For example, the positron, e+, is the
antiparticle to the electron, e·. According to the CPT theorem,4 properties of matter and
their counterpart antimatter particles are identical. This has been tested in the
laboratory to an accuracy of roughly 1 part in 10 million.
Antimatter is appealing for aerospace uses because its specific energy by annihilation is
180 MJ/µg, or 10 orders of magnitude larger than chemical energy, as shown in Figure
1.
Energy Density
MJ/µg
Olerrical
Fission
Fusion
Fbsitron
Annihilation
Figure 1. Specific Energy for Chemical, Nuclear, and Antimatter Materials
In the presence of matter, the positron binds with an electron to form a short-lived
atom called positronium (Ps). Depending on the relative spin orientations of the
positron and electron, Ps has a mean lifetime in a vacuum of 125 picoseconds (para-Ps,
spins antiparallel), or 142 nanoseconds (ortho-Ps, spins parallel).
From quantum number conservation, para-Ps decays into two gamma rays of equal
energy, 511 kiloelectronvolts (keV), whereas ortho-Ps decays into three gamma rays
whose energies add up to 1022 keV. Hence, when Ps self-annihilates, there is 100
percent conversion of mass into electromagnetic energy given by Einstein's famous
equation, E = mc2, where c is the speed of light.
Although the energies of positron annihilation gamma rays are on the nuclear scale,
they have none of the undesirable features associated with nuclear energy. First, the
annihilation evolves rapidly (nanoseconds) and is controllable under predictable
electromagnetic forces. There is no long-term inertia as with nuclear reactors.
Consequently, positron-generated thrust can be throttled.
1

Second, low-energy gamma rays from positron annihilation cannot make residual
radioactivity in surrounding air and containment vessels. In contrast, antiprotons
annihilate into a host of high-energy particles, including n-mesons and gamma rays that
can induce residual radioactivity in nearby materials.
Finally, low-energy gamma rays from positron annihilation can be readily converted into
useful forms of energy, including heat and electricity required for propulsion systems.
This contrasts with large, complex systems required for conversion of antiproton
annihilation and nuclear fission/fusion energy.
There are two reasons why positrons have yet to be used for aerospace applications,
First, it has not been possible to produce them in the numbers required. However,
recent developments in high-energy physics research are resulting in expanding levels
of positron production. Second, methods for storing positrons for basic research do not
hold enough positrons long enough for propulsion applications. Recent developments in
storage techniques may significantly improve the situation, with lifetimes up to months
and possibly years.
Positron Air-Breathing Propulsion
Aeronautical engines burn a mixture of aviation fuel and oxygen in air to heat a working
fluid. To keep engines small, the combustion rate in the engine needs to be high .5 At
sea level for a fuel-air mass ratio of 0.068, it is 500,000 kJ/m 3-s. To maintain speed,
the thrust specific fuel consumption (TSFC) for turbojets and turbo-ramjets is in the
range of 0.075 - 0.11 and 0.17 - 0.26 kilogram/hour-Newton (kg/hr-N), respectively.
All aeronautical engines are limited in range and flight duration by the fuel on board.
Because of the aforementioned performance bounds of combustion engines, the
aeronautic industry has worked diligently to increase the range and payload of aircraft
by maximizing the performance of combustion engines and optimizing aerodynamic
design. Beyond this, the only way a combustion-powered aircraft can extend its range
and endurance is by in-flight refueling.
Two projects investigated nuclear power as a way to increase performance. In 1946,
the U.S. Air Force established the Nuclear Energy for Propulsion of Aircraft program.
However, this program was disbanded in 1951 in favor of the joint Atomic Energy
Commission-Air Force Aircraft Nuclear Propulsion program. Implementing nuclear
fission to power an aircraft required two approaches. One was direct cycle, whereby air
was heated by passing it through a nuclear reactor; the other was indirect cycle,
whereby the reactor heated a liquid metal that in turn heated air in a secondary heat
exchanger. The program never produced a prototype and was canceled in 1961.
In 1957, the Pentagon started development of a nuclear ramjet missile (SLAM,
Supersonic Low-Altitude Missile) to fly below Soviet defenses. The Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory Pluto program successfully tested two engines, Tory-IIA and Tory­
IIC (Figure 2), at the Nevada Test Site. The program was canceled in 1964.6• 7
2

Figure 2. Tory-IIC Ready for Testing (courtesy LLNL)
In a positron turbojet/ramjet engine (PTRE),8 tungsten shells are heated by gamma
rays, with heat transferred to air by convection. 9, 10
turbojet turbine
turbojet compressor
turbojet healing
chamber
tungsten shells
us d for healing
--
Figure 3. PTRE Turbojet (green) and Turbo-Ramjet (red) Modes (courtesy Positronics Research LLC) 11
3

UNCLASSIFIED/

; . Turbine Powered Electrical
Concentric Annular Tungsten Heating Generator is Power Source

Surfaces Transfer Positron Conversion For Positron Trap and Electric
Heat Energy To Airflow Motor for Compressor

Electric Motor 7 TD, ie

Driven BA
Compressor \. Zi Airflow
\

Positron . GZ ZA Zs Me

Heated Air expands thru
turbine and nozzle

‘\. Positron Conversion
Chamber

Compressor and turbine can be feathered to convert
turbo jet to ramjet

Figure 4. Details of the PTRE Engine (courtesy Positronics Research LLC)?*

A comparison with the combustion turbo-ramjet engine (Figure 5) shows that volume
used for combustion heating is used by PTREs for convection heating.

turbojet
combustion chamber nozzle

turbojet ramjet fuel injectors
compressor

turbojet
turbine
ramjet combustion
chamber
Figure 5. Combustion Turbo-Ramjet (courtesy Positronics Research LLC)*>

4
UNCLASSIFIED / /+0R-OFFf6EAE-USE-ONTT

PTRE Applications
Three uses for PTREs have been investigated: unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs),
ramjet-assisted missiles (RAMs), and single-stage reusable vehicles (SSRVs).
UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE {UAV)
Figure 6 shows range versus positron mass for a 60-kg UAV with lift/drag of four that
can circumnavigate Earth on 150 µg of positrons. 14 It is modeled after the LOCASS
turbojet (Figure 7) at the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), Eglin Air Force Base,
Florida .15
350
300
-
250
~
z
200
a,
s::
C,:J
Ct:
100
50
0
Positron Mass (mg)
Figure 6. UAV Range Versus Positron Mass (courtesy Positronics Research LLC) 16
5

UNCLASSIFIED /FPOROPPICTAL USE ONLY

Figure 7. LOCAAS Turbojet Engine (courtesy of AFRL, Eglin AFB, FL)?”

A UAV fueled with positrons would allow for an ultralong-endurance platform with many
“dual-use” applications, including the following:

Military

e Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance.

e Real-time battlefield command observation.

e Monitoring and early warning of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons.
e Ordnance delivery.

e Target laser illumination/covert target acquisition.

e Coastal patrol.

e Drug interdiction.

e Search and rescue.

e Geomagnetic and atmospheric surveys.

Civil, State, and Local Government

e Airborne early warning (storms, terrorist attacks, chemical/biological/nuclear).

UNCLASSIFIED / -4-@R-OFFEGEE-USE-ONE

UNCLASSIFIED / /F@R-OFFtGH-USE-ONE—

e Environmental/pollution monitoring.

e Fire detection and monitoring.

e Aerial surveying.

e Weather and atmospheric monitoring.

e Border patrol.

e Emergency communications relay.

e Drug interdiction.

e Law enforcement.

e Highway/road monitoring.

e Search and rescue.

Commercial

e Iceberg patrol/tracking in shipping lanes.

e Railway/pipeline/power line monitoring.

e Commercial fishing reconnaissance/sea-life monitoring.
e Environmental/pollution monitoring.

e Livestock monitoring.

e Mineral exploration.

e Weather sensing.

e Agriculture.

Additional advantages to the commercial airline industry:
e Less propellant means increased payload/passenger per aircraft.
e Global nonstop flights are possible.

e Increase in structural mass allows more electronics/passenger amenities.
RAMJET-ASSISTED MISSILE (RAM)

The BOMARC 440-kilometer (km)-range antiaircraft missile was developed by the U.S.
Air Force in the 1950s to counter Soviet bombers. In the 1960s, the Talos, a long-range
surface-to-air missile, was developed by the U.S. Navy and later converted to the
Vandal missile. Both ramjets (Figure 8) activated at mach 1.

UNCLASSIFIED/ (FORO FFtGHA-USE-OFL

Figure 8. BOMARC (left) and Talos (right) Ramjet-Assisted Missiles (courtesy Boeing and the U.S. Navy)
The BOMARC range cou ld be increased to 2,000 km with 1 milligram (mg) of positrons.
In addition, positrons could act as ordnance to destroy electronics on missiles or aircraft
by electromagnetic pulse (EMP) by detonation of micrograms of positrons up to
hundreds of meters from the target. 18
SINGLE-STAGE REUSABLE VEHICLE (SSRV)
The Department of Defense, NASA, and the aerospace industry are working to eliminate
multistage rockets for access to low Earth orbit (LEO) to lower launch costs. An SSRV
would integrate components and allow more rapid turnaround on missions.
The combustion SSRV has a lower payload ratio than conventional rockets. Current
designs use combined-cycle or combination engines for the endoatmospheric phases of
the mission. Use of air-breathing engines significantly reduces propellant mass and
gross liftoff weight (GLOW). Improving payload mass requires reducing propellant and
structural mass, both of which can be accomplished using positrons as fuel.
A PTRE eliminates propellant mass during the endoatmospheric phase of operation . Any
reduction of propellant mass has serious positive effects for three reasons. First, it
allows an increased payload/number of passengers per aircraft. Second, adding
positrons on the milligram level does not change the lift requirements for the aircraft,
resulting in longer range flights, perhaps exceeding 100 kilonautical miles (kNM). Third,
the structural mass may be increased.
Tables 1 and 2 provide a mass budget comparison between a chemically fueled SSRV19
and a positron-powered SSRV. 20
8

1
UNCLASSIFIED/} FOR OFFICIICL tl.!l!!! 8HLY
Table 1. GLOW for Chemical SSRV21
Vehicle Component
&ructure
Thermal Protection
Propulsion (4 engines)
Electronics
TOTAL DRY MASS
15% Margin + Unused Propellants
Payload
BURNOUT MASS
TOTAL PROPELLANT
GLOW
Table 2. GLOW for Positron SSRV22
Vehicle Component
Mass
Structure
Thermal Protection
Propulsion (4 engines)
Electronics
TOTAL DRY MASS
15% Margin + Unused Propellants
Payload
BURNOUT MASS
TOTAL PROPELLANT
GLOW
The GLOW of the positron SSRV is 43 percent less than that of the chemical SSRV
owing to reduced propellant mass. The PTRE will dramatically increase the affordability
of space transportation by increasing the useful payload.
9

-E
0.1
l= 146 sec
I= 1650sec
300km
0
500 sec
1000sec
1500sec
Time
Figure 9. Positron SSRV Flight Profile (courtesy Positronics Research LLC) 23
The SSRV takes off horizontally (Figure 9) from Edwards Air Force Base, accelerates to
mach 1.8 as a turbojet, and then goes to the ramjet mode. At mach 8 the rocket is
ignited and takes the vehicle into LEO. 24 The positron mass budget for a 60,500-kg dry
mass for ascension to LEO is 86 .9 mg (Table 3) .
Table 3. Total Positron Requirement for SSRV With a Dry Mass of 60,500 kg 25
Mission Mode
Mass Of e!
Turbojet ­ Launch
Ramjet
10% margin (turbojet mode upon
landing, inclination changes, etc. )
TOTAL
An artist's rendition of the SSRV is provided in Figure 10.
10

Figure 10. Artist's Rendition of a Four-Engine Positron SSRV (courtesy of Positronics Research LLC) 26
Positron-Powered Rockets
A positron rocket offers significant advantages over nuclear fission and antiproton
rockets. 27 Nuclear fission reactors contain enormous amounts of highly toxic radioactive
material, and antiproton rockets produce radioactivity in surrounding materials by
interactions of high-energy mesons and gamma rays from antiproton annihilation. The
proposed nuclear fission gas core rocket and antiproton adaptations would release
radioactive fission fragments into the atmosphere. In contrast, positron rockets are
totally radioactivity free.
Second, in the event of an accidental detonation of the positron fuel, the prompt
(nanoseconds) burst of gamma rays can be shielded from humans on spacecraft. The
1/e absorption length of a 511-keV gamma ray in lead is 5.6 millimeters. A 13­
centimeter (cm)-thick shield thus reduces the gamma ray flux by a factor 8.3 x 10-11 .
To illustrate, a human behind such a shield at a distance of 10 meters from a 100-mg
source of annihilating positrons would experience a whole-body radiation dose of 2 rem
(roentgen equivalent man), which is within the annual tolerance for radiation workers in
the United States.
The following sections investigate three positron rockets: solid core, gas core, and
photon. 28 In a solid-core positron rocket, positrons heat a hydrogen working fluid
through an attenuating solid such as tungsten. In a gas-core positron rocket, gamma
rays directly heat propellant through a one- or two-fluid process. In a photon positron
rocket, solid propellant is ablated from a surface bombarded by gamma rays.
11

THE SOLID-CORE POSITRON ROCKET
Figure 11 depicts a solid-core positron-powered rocket, similar in many regards to the
NERVA nuclear-thermal concept. 29
Attenuating
HX
Inlet Plenum
Turbine &
Exhaust Nozzle
Hot Bleed
Line
Figure 11. Solid-Core Positron Rocket Engine With a Hot-Bleed Configuration (courtesy Positronics
Research LLC)30
The cryogenic hydrogen propellant is supplied from a storage tank through a high­
pressure pump and routed to cool the regenerative nozzle, the casing of the heat
exchanger, and the central positron target tubes. Ps enters the in let plenum to the
attenuator that is heated by gamma rays to high temperature. Hydrogen propellant
passes through the attenuating matrix and is heated and exhausted through a nozzle to
generate thrust.
A small fraction of the hot exit propellant is bled off to a turbine that drives the high­
pressure feed pump. The high-temperature bleed can either be mixed with cold
hydrogen to reduce its temperature or directly fed to the turbine. If it is directly fed to
the turbine, it must be made of materials that can withstand high temperatures. The
bleed flow is exhausted from a turbine exit nozzle to space a~er driving the turbine.
As with the NERVA system, the positron solid-core concept is thermally limited by
materials in the heating chamber. The difference is that the fission system requires a
reactor and complex machinery, whereas the positron system relies on Ps atoms
injected upstream from a storage unit. This has two advantages. First, a reduction in
the engine mass for a given thrust is realized; second, there is greater choice in
materials to be used in the heating chamber.
A thermal-fluids analysis was conducted to predict performance. A specific impulse of
920 seconds is attainable with chamber temperatures at 3,000 Kelvin. The
corresponding thrust and power emulate fission systems. Mars trip burn times are on
12

the order of 30 minutes, indicating that a spacecraft employing three 72-kN solid-core
engines would require 6-9 mg of positrons per mission.
Solid-core fission and positron systems are compared in Table 4.
Table 4. Comparison of Space Propulsion and Power
Systems - Solid Core
Fission-Based
Positron Powered
Technology
• NERVA/Rover
demonstrated
• Never fl ight tested
• Conceptual
• Must demonstrate
positron storage and
controlled injection
• Near-term technology
demonstration for positron
storage needed
Performance . I,p "' 950 sec
(matched to thrust)
• Lifetime "' 2 hours total
operation
. lsp - as in fission systems
. Thrust -variable, similar to
fission systems
. Power - matched to thrust
• Lifetime - set by material
considerations
Operation
. Design dictated by
neutronics, fuel burn up
and fission poisoning
. High neutron & gamma
radiation during operation
. Requires active, accurate
and massive control
. Requires shutdown
cooling to remove heat
from nuclear waste
• Radiation after shutdown
due to fission products
. No criticality, burn up or
poison accumulation
issues
. Design based only upon
heat transfer and gamma
attenuation issues
• Does not require
shutdown cooling
. Simple on-off control,
power controlled by rate of
positrop utilization
• Not a radiation source
Materials
. Material dictated by
neutron Jes
. Working fluids for power
systems - inert gas
• Uranium in graphite media
• Corrosion issues require
complex fuel
. Material choices dictated
by temperature
. Working fluids for power
systems - inert gas
Payload
• Requires massive shield
• Shield required around
Integration
from reactor
• Requires separation from
reactor
• Complex design issues
due to neutron scattering
manned area separated
from positron storage
• Propulsion and power
sources can be integrated
into vehicle
Post Operation
• Not able to return to earth
or inhabited surface
• Not reusable or refuelable
• Able to return to Earth or
inhabitedsurface
• Reusable and refuelable
UNCLASSIFIED//EAR OFFICIO I. Pili QPII.¥
13

THE GAS-CORE POSITRON ROCKET
The gas-core positron concept follows nuclear gas-core concepts, 31, 32, 33 which are
different from the solid-core concept in that gamma rays directly heat a fluid under
pressure. The limit of the solid-core approach is melting temperatures of the solid
matrix gamma ray attenuator. By direct heating, temperatures can increase
significantly as long as the gas does not appreciably heat the walls.
Four versions of the gas-core concept are illustrated in Figure 12. Synchronous with
pulsed Ps injection are (a-c) pulses of LN2 or LNe or LH 2 with LXe gamma ray
attenuator and (d) pulses of LH2 where Ps is encapsulated in lead, a gamma ray
converter. For fluid injection, a turbo-pump (not shown) is located upstream, with
power obtained from a positron Brayton cycle system described later in this paper.
Results from computational fluid dynamics codes reveal that high-density regions of the
fluid move away from the gamma ray source when the power in the system exceeds
300 megawatts. Under these conditions, the propellant does not efficiently absorb
gamma rays. Furthermore, calculations of heat required for continuous operation
suggest the vortex configuration of (b) breaks down and reverts to two-fluid flow.
However, both the two-fluid, flow-through model and the Ps lead -cartridge concepts
show promise if the mass flow rate of the hydrogen propellant exceeds that of the
xenon or lead by a factor of five. By operating in a pulsed mode, one should be able to
control the positron delivery into the chamber core. With complete absorption of
gamma rays in the 2-cm lead casing, performance of the system matches that of
previously examined systems. 34, 35
Thrusts of 130 kN (1,000 atmospheres) are predicted for a single-engine system with
an efficiency of 85 percent. Burn times are 30 minutes for tiV = 3. 7 km/second (sec)
with 25 mg of positrons consumed for a 50,000-kg burnout mass. The limit of the gas­
core concept occurs near the thresholds for ionization of hydrogen, corresponding to l sp
14

UNCLASSIFIED/ (POR OPPICTAL USE ONLY

LN2 or Ne HEATING CHAMBER NOZZLE
os F

Pb ENCASED e+

Figure 12. Fluid Systems. (a) One-fluid system of LN2 or Ne propellant; (b) Two-fluid system of LH2 and LXe; (c)

Two-fluid flow-through system with LH2 at higher mass flow rates than LXe; and (d) One-fluid LHz system with lead
encapsulated Ps (courtesy Positronics Research LLC)*°

iS

THE SANGER PHOTON POSITRON ROCKET
In 1953, German engineer Eugen Sanger proposed the photon rocket. One means of
providing thrust was to shower a parabolic mirror with positron annihilation gamma
rays .37 Unfortunately, there are no materials that reflect gamma rays at large angles.
A schematic of a modified Sanger photon rocket is shown in Figure 13. Ps is emitted in
'pellets' from several storage banks located behind the engine. Positrons are
programmed by supporting fields to annihilate in front of a stiffened pressure plate, the
shape of which was assumed to be parabolic for this work. 38
To make the Sanger photon rocket practical, solid propellant that can be ablated from
the plate is added. Gamma rays deposit energy on the surface of the ablation material
and jettison high-energy particles with large lsp . As the solid material recedes from the
target, the location of the positron annihilation can be correspondingly moved inward to
preserve focal properties of the system. A thickness of a few meters of material is
sufficient for a planetary mission.
PEC SYSTEM
(OPTIONAL)
e+ TRAP BANKS
SOLID ABLATION
MATERIAL
Figure 13. Modified Sanger Photon Rocket Concept (courtesy Positronics Research LLC) 39
The predicted l sp for this system results in fast transit times to Mars, warranting a
positron power plant. Unlike the solid-core or gas-core concepts, there are no means to
draw off some of the ablated material to provide power. A separate Brayton-cycle
positron energy conversion system provides power to the pellet mass driver and other
16

components. Alternatively, solar collectors or closed-loop nuclear reactors could be
employed .
To improve ablation efficiency, annihilation gamma rays must be wavelength shifted
(WLS) by passing them through a high-Z WLS material. The material of choice, lead,
also serves as the shell of the Ps pellet. The pellet vaporizes into high-energy plasma,
and the WLS photons propagate to the pressure plate. Silicon carbide ablation material
has been adopted from the antiproton catalyzed microfission/fusion concept4°, 41
developed at Penn State University by the author and coworkers. Photon energy
distributions are shifted through 2 cm of lead to 1-10 keV from 511 keV with 85 percent
efficiency.
Performance depends primarily on the energy of the WLS photons and the energy per
pellet. At 8 keV, l sp is in the range 1,200-3,000 sec. Thrust is 40-145 kN, the latter at a
pellet injection rate of 1 hertz. The total quantity of positrons consumed for a one-way
trip to Mars over th is range of l sp is 15-40 mg with 50 percent of gamma rays striking
the plate and a 85 percent WLS efficiency.
POSITRON ROCKET SYSTEM COMPARISON
A side-by-side comparison of three positron rocket propulsion concepts is presented in
Table 5 for a one-way transit to Mars using t:N = 3. 7 km/sec.
Table 5. Comparison of Three Positron Propulsion
Concepts for Mars Mission
Solid-Core
Gas-Core
Sanger Ablation
lsp
Thrust
72 kN , small class
Limits
• Wall and nozzle
temperature
• Wall and nozzle
temperature
• H Ionization
• Positron density
per pellet
e+ mass
efficiency)
efficiency)
(42.5% efficiency)
Special
• Continuous burn
• Pulsed burn
• Pulsed burn
Notes
• Multiple engines
may be possible
• Hot-bleed line
possible
• Multiple engines
may be possible
• Hot-bleed line
possible
• Engine can be
throttled
• Multiple engines
may be possible
• No direct onboard
power
• Engine can be
throttled
Future work • Efficiency study
• Efficiency study
• Lower pressure
possible?
• Further WLS and
radiation transport
study
17

POSITRON ENERGY CONVERSION FOR ONBOARD POWER
Research was conducted on positron utilization in a standalone, closed-loop, high-power
system. 42 A Brayton cycle engine (Figure 14) was investigated with output power of 100
kW, consistent with Mars Reference Mission specifications. 43• 44 Results show efficiencies
of 25-30 percent and positron consumption of 7 µg/hour.
Such a power system would have practical meaning for fast transits to Mars where
positron consumption does not dominate rocket positron consumption.
l
Figure 14. Closed Brayton Cycle Using Positron Annihilation (courtesy Positronics Research LLC}45
In addition, a small, 110-watt, positron-driven generator (Figure 15) for small, onboard
tasks was designed around the NASA Glenn Research Center Stirling Radioisotope
Generator,46 with heat provided by Ps gamma rays.
SIJrfing Convertor 1 (55 We)
S1irting Convertor 2 (55 We)
Eleclric Power Oullel
Mag,,ollcSloev
Figure 15. Conceptual 110-Watt Positron Closed-Cycle Generator Based on the NASA Glenn Research
Center Stirling Radioisotope Generator47 (courtesy Positronics Research LLC} 48
18

Positrons for a Manned Mars Mission
Positron propulsion systems improve engine performance, making them an attractive
substitute for chemical and nuclear systems for manned exploration of the planets. One
of the boldest challenges is a manned mission to Mars. Onboard propellant requires an
overall interplanetary system mass that prohibits use of any type of existing launch
vehicle, including the Saturn V. The need to protect astronauts from radiation hazards
in space inhibits use of low-impulse interplanetary trajectories to reduce propellant
mass. Missions must be established that can transport astronauts to Mars in less than
180 days.
Demands on a positron engine to get from LEO to Mars are based on two parameters:
mass of the spacecraft after burnout and the tiV provided by orbital mechanics. Efforts
to minimize burnout mass for a positron-based rocket spacecraft prompted examination
of previously designed systems. The NASA Mars Exploration Study Team studied such
systems in 1997-98.49, so
Conclusions reached by NASA and adopted for this study include:
•
To make the Mars mission economically feasible, multiple payloads should be
launched to Mars instead of a single, "all-in-one" vehicle. This keeps payload masses
within reach of existing chem ical launch systems .
•
A solid-core nuclear-thermal rocket (NTR) was studied. The study adopted existing
NERVA rockets with l sp = 900 seconds and a core temperature near 2,800 °c. The
1993 study examined 15 kilopound-force klbf and 20 klbf rockets. 51
•
Each launch had a payload consisting of the NTR with its Mars payload.
•
Unpiloted cargo was sent on a low-energy ("C3") Hohmann-type transfer, generally
the slowest means of reaching Mars.
•
The Mars excursion vehicle should be sent on a "fast transit" to Mars from LEO. A
fast, 180-day mission would not require artificial gravity on the spacecraft to protect
astronauts from weightlessness.
•
The Earth return vehicle (ERV) sits in Mars orbit at 250-km periapsis and waits until
astronauts have docked from Mars using a liquid oxygen (LOX)/methane propulsion
system. The ERV uses a chemical propulsion system to return home to avoid use of
a fission-based propulsion plant in the atmosphere.
•
Minimization of tiV to Mars is performed by launching during estimated planetary
conjunctions (every 778 days) and by using aerobraking.
•
Aerobraking uses the chemical propulsion system of the cargo vessel or lander.
Payload is jettisoned from the NTR system (called the trans-Mars insertion system
[TMI]) sometime during the trip to Mars.
•
To reduce the probability of impact with Earth, an additional tiV is given to the TMI
stage after the payload has separated.
19

UNCLASSIFIED/ 42@R-OFFL6i-USE-O

Benefits of using positrons for a Mars mission include:

e The “disposable AV” used to propel TMI stages into low-probability Earth or Mars
intercepts can be eliminated, reducing total propellant mass.

e Reduction in shielding and engine mass give lower initial mass low Earth orbit for
launch vehicles or faster transits for piloted missions.

e The ERV uses a positron engine instead of LOX/CH4. This gives significant mass
savings or an equivalent reduction in Mars-to-Earth return time for astronauts.

e The improvement in Isp translates to either a reduced launch payload mass for cargo
missions or reduced transit times for piloted missions to Mars.

e More chemical propellant can be stored on the lander to improve aerobraking or
landing strategies that reduce hazards for astronauts.

Launch dates are set for around 2030. Assuming minimum AV for Mars opposition-class
missions, interplanetary scenarios are illustrated in Figure 16. The AV for an insertion
trajectory into Mars for the manned mission (Figure 16b) is AV = 3.7 km/sec. Each
manned trajectory assumes a 180-day transit time.

05

coor dinaie (AU)

(c)

Figures 16. Mars Trajectories (X-coordinates defined in direction of Aries): (a) 2029 cargo mission; (b)
2031 manned lander to Mars; (c) 2033 manned return to Earth; (d) 2035 manned lander to Mars, if necessary
(courtesy Positronics Research LLC)**

20
UNCLASSIFIED / /PORoOPfICTAL USE ONT

The Mars reference mission53 , 54 considered payload masses of 60,000 kg for 2015
missions. This can be reduced to 45,000 kg assuming technological advances by 2031
with a complete interplanetary spacecraft mass of 90,000 kg.
In summary, the mission scenario for a positron spacecraft is similar to that for existing
studies, but with the use of less costly launch vehicles. Every 778 days, two 45,000-kg
payloads are launched from Earth using a Saturn V or equivalent chemical rocket. One
payload is the unmanned system or manned crew lander sent to Mars; the other
contains the positron propulsion system and the propellant tank. They are assembled as
a complete unit in LEO.
Unmanned systems are launched in advance of the crewed system in order to ensure
that the Martian habitat is well established. The crew arrives at Mars in late 2033,
performs research for 1 year, and then returns home in a smaller positron spacecraft
using a shorter trajectory. Artists' renditions of two possible positron spaceships
previously described in this study are shown in Figure 17.
(a)
(b)
Figure 17. Spacecraft Using Positron Engines. (a) Solid-core system enters Mars orbit; (b) Modified Sanger
photon rocket system burns for landing on Mars (courtesy Positronics Research LLC).55
Architectures for Mars exploration using a positron SSRV are summarized below:
•
Before humans leave for Mars on initial flights, cargo ships precede them to Mars on
low-energy trajectories to take the components of a Mars space station (MSS) and
necessary supplies, including a Mars surface lander (MSL). The MSS will be similar
to an Earth space station (ESS). The cargo ships will utilize positron rocket engines.
•
Manned positron SSRVs launched from Earth rendezvous in LEO with the ESS. The
SSRV is a horizontal-takeoff, horizontal-landing winged-body, manned vehicle in
which the first stages of flight use air-breathing engines with positrons heating the
air. It switches to the rocket engine to complete the final ascent phase to LEO.
•
Once ready for interplanetary flights at the ESS, including refueling, the SSRV flies
to Mars on a fast, high-energy trajectory, carrying a crew of five or six astronauts
and powered by positron rocket engines. The SSRV conducts a rendezvous with the
21

MSS, and the astronauts descend to the Mars surface on the MSL using a high­
thrust variant of the positron rocket engine.
Positron Production
Positrons are currently produced at particle accelerators worldwide for basic and
applications research. For example, the positron-emitting radioisotope Na22 (2. 7 year
mean lifetime) is made by bombarding targets with neutrons from a high-energy proton
accelerator in the reaction Al 27(n,x)Na22 . Capture of these positrons is used to form
beams with keV (slow) to MeV (fast) energies. Handling of large radioactive sources
results in limits of 106 slow positrons/sec.
For intensities up to 1010/sec, bombardment of metal targets with electron beams in the
10- to 100-MeV range is used, followed by collection and acceleration (deceleration) of
positrons to form fast or slow beams. In addition, it has recently been shown that slow
positron beams of up to 1011/sec can be realized by converting neutrons in reactors to
electron-positron pairs in thin metal foils.
Much higher positron currents are being sought in a variety of proposed solutions.
Illustrated below are a few of the more promising concepts.
First, in 1996, the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory56 proposed developing an intense
source of fast positrons ( 1016/sec) utilizing compact electron betatron accelerators.
Second, tabletop femtosecond laser-driven positron sources currently under
development at the National Ignition Facility (Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory),
the Rutherford-Appleton Laboratory (United Kingdom), and the Max Planck Institute
(Munich) look promising, although more must be done to demonstrate efficient
collection of positrons into beams.
Finally, a most important step forward is multi-gigaelectronvolt (GeV) energy electron
storage rings being developed for the high-energy physics International Linear Collider
(ILC) project that uses undulators in electron beams to create intense photon beams
that produce intense (10 14•16/sec) positron beams by pair production. 57 A schematic
drawing from one proposal for the ILC is shown in Figure 18.58
Layout of /LC Positron Source
Hollcal
Undulot0r
In By.P
s
Una
M. Ku
KEK
Figure 18. Proposed Undulator-Based Positron Source for the International Linear Collider (courtesy
KEK, Japan) 59
22

Assuming that 1016 positrons/sec can be realized in the next 10 years, then 150
micrograms could be produced in 6 months to enable a globe-encircling flight of a small
air-breathing turbojet UAV as discussed earlier.
Positron Costs
An independent study has been done to determine future costs of positrons and, for
comparison, antiprotons as well. The results, shown in Table 6, are based on data for
existing sources and proposals for future sources. 60, 61, 62
Table 6. Positron and Antiproton Expected Costs in the Next 10 Years
Source
CERNA
Fermilab
Trap Injection
Ener
0.1
Filling Rate
sec1
When
Now
Now
$/JOULE
annihilation
?
* $100 million/year (est. op. cost).
** $5 million/year (est. op. cost, adjusted for inflation)/$100 million/year (est. op. cost).
Two clear results of the study should be noted .
First, measured on a scale of dollars per joule of annihilation energy, positrons cost less
than antiprotons by a factor of 1,000-100,000. Because each antiproton produces 1,836
times more energy per annihilation than a positron, this result appears to defy logic.
However, the laboratory energy threshold for producing antiprotons is 6,000 times
greater than for positrons, requiring a relatively complex proton synchrotron that is
costly to construct and run. In addition, antiprotons are made at much higher
laboratory energy than positrons and require costly apparatuses to decelerate them to
trapping energies.
On the other hand, because electrons and positrons are relativistic at very low energy,
their electron production and secondary systems are comparatively simple and less
costly to operate and maintain than proton systems. These factors, combined with the
absence of radioactive residue associated with positron annihilation, make positrons the
obvious choice over antiprotons.
Second, the cost of positrons is projected to be $0 .004/J x 180 MJ/µg = $720K/µg.
Hence, the cost of 1 gram is $0 .72T, or 5 percent of the 2008 U.S. gross domestic
product (GDP). A 2000 NASA study63 on which this author collaborated placed the cost
of antiprotons at $64T/g, consistent with the $333/J figure in the second line of Table
5, and roughly six times the 2000 GDP. Unfortunately, this is still being quoted in U.S.
scientific and government communities. The dramatic reduction in the unit cost of
antimatter since 2000 is due to a new emphasis on positrons by the physics
community, and hopefully this paper will help spread that good news.
Earlier, a nonstop flight around the globe by a small positron UAV was described as
equivalent to the 1927 Spirit of St. Louis transatlantic flight of Charles Lindbergh. From
23

Table 5, the required 150 µg for this epic flight could be manufactured in 6 months for
$96 million, or 0.0007 percent of U.S. GDP.
Positron Storage
Confinement of antimatter has been reviewed extensively in the literature. 64
Historically, the first approach was the Penning trap. 65 Stores of 109 positrons for 1
hour have been achieved .66 Electric potentials are required to overcome space charge
forces. 67 To illustrate, confinement of 1015 positrons in a 10-cm-radius sphere in a
perfect vacuum requires an electric potential of 240 kilovolts. Laboratory control of such
large potentials restricts stores to < 1 picogram (10 15 ) .
Figure 19. Penning Trap With Trapping Volume of 1,000 Cubic Centimeters (center), Injection
Apparatus (left) and Controls (right) (courtesy Positronics Research LLC) 68
In addition, with a magnetic field there are magnetic energy density restrictions on
confinement of positron plasmas. The Brillouin Density Limit is:
2
(1)
B
o
e.
For a practical magnetic field of 1 Tesla, ns = 9.7 x 1012/cubic centimeters. In a 10-cm
rad ius sphere, the Brillouin Number Limit is 4 x 1016 (40 picograms). Therefore, by
24

either space charge or magnetic energy considerations, the storage limit is tens of
picograms, 7-8 orders of magnitude short of 100 micrograms, where practical uses of
positrons begin to emerge, as illustrated earlier.
The second approach is confinement of neutral Ps atoms in manufactured porous media
of either regular lattices of atoms, such as polymers, or irregular strands of insulator
material encapsulating voids, such as silica aerogel. 69, 70 Regardless of void size, Ps
atoms ultimately annihilate with electrons attached to atoms on the boundaries of voids
by the so-called "pickoff" process. Therefore, large, observable lifetimes require
materials with extraordinarily large voids.
FORMATION OF POSITRONIUM IN POROUS MEDIA
Positrons are injected into a porous
material at low energy (~100 keV) to
ensure that they stop and form a Ps atom
over a distance of a few millimeters. 71
The positron rapidly loses its energy by
collisions with electrons attached to
atoms in the material. As it nears 6.8
electronvolts (eV)-the binding energy of
the ground state of Ps-it captures a
weakly bound electron and forms Ps. It
diffuses through the material, and over
about 1 nanosecond, its energy is
rendered to the room temperature of the
material, 0.025 eV. This is called
thermalization.
The quantum mechanical model of Psis
remarkably similar to the hydrogen atom.
The major difference is that Ps
spontaneously annihilates, whereas
hydrogen is stable. The "self-annihilation"
of Ps due to overlap of electron and
positron wave functions results in extremely short lifetimes, as noted earlier.
Lifetimes against "self-annihilation" can be demonstrably increased if the following two
conditions are met: (1) a way is found to isolate the electron wave function from the
positron wave function, and (2) materials provide voids large enough to allow detection
of lifetimes well beyond 142 nanoseconds (ns). A high vacuum is required to avoid Ps
annihilation on gas molecules within the voids. The following describes how Positronics
Research LLC has approached these issues in the laboratory. 72
LONG-TERM STORAGE OF POSITRONIUM
Under crossed magnetic and electric fields, Ps assumes a doubly oblate shape (Figure
21), with the electron and positron separated by hundreds of nanometers to tens of
micrometers, depending on the size of the fields.73 Computation of lifetimes against
quantum mechanical barrier penetration reveals lifetimes in excess of 1 year over a
large range of magnetic and electric fields.
Figure 20. A Positron Forms Ps on the Edge of a
Void, Thermalizes, and Becomes Trapped in a Void
Before Annihilating (courtesy University of
Michigan)
25

8
000
o
-
0
Lifetime shortening owing to cyclotron
extremely low density and excellent
thermal insulating properties. It is
composed of strands of SiO2 (silica)
grains suspended in a gel that has been
dried and expanded by injection of gases
5-Tesla Magnetic Field and 100 V/ cm Electric Field
(1 a.u. = 0.052 nm) {courtesy University of
to a very-low-density configuration of
Bielefeld, Germany)74
large voids within an irregular lattice of
silica strands (Figure 22). Silica aerogel is
available commercially with typically 20-nanometer average voids. Recent research has
produced silica aerogel with up to 1-micrometer void sizes.
Experiments in Japan and at Positronics
Research LLC33 with low-energy positrons
in silica aerogel show a high efficiency
(~35 percent) for making Ps through the
interaction of the positron with silica
grains. High radiation exposure from
positrons implanted in the material result
in it becoming "paramagnetic,"
permanently at low temperatures, with a
high density of "dangling bonds"
containing very loosely bound electrons
that explains the high efficiency for Ps
formation. It therefore serves a dual role
as source and storage medium for Ps.
What lifetimes might be expected working
Figure 22. TEM of Silica Aerogel {courtesy
with this material?
Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory)
The Ps decay rate in a porous material is given by: 75
T
q
(2)
Figure 21. Computer Simulation of Ps Atoms in a
radiation of the electron and positron
gyrating in the magnetic field are not
included in this model. Because this
process is proportional to B2, magnetic
fields should be small-less than 0.1 Tesla
based on our computations of the effect.
This, in turn, renders the atom very large,
with up to 1-micrometer elongation. If
this can be verified in the laboratory, the
first of the two conditions laid out in the
previous section will be satisfied.
Next, it is important to identify a storage
medium with the largest possible voids.
Silica aerogel is a promising material that
was developed by NASA because of its
E
26

UNCLASSIFIED/;'FOR OFFl@IAL YSE OHLY
where k' is characteristic of the electron density for silica strands= 0.0164 nm-ns-1, R
is the void radius (nm), r' is the silica strand thickness (0.68 nm), AT is the self­
annihilation rate, and Aq is the quenching rate for air (0.00427 ns-1 at 0.1 torr vacuum,
typical of a standard rotary pump). To illustrate, without magnetic and electric fields (AT
is consistent with our measurements.76
Assuming self-annihilation is suppressed (AT~ 0) by crossed magnetic and electric
fields, a high vacuum c10-s torr) is maintained (Aq ~ 0) and R = 20 nm, then A = 8.5 x
10-4 ns-1, or t = 1.2 µs. Proprietary experiments at Positronics Research LLC show that
Ps atoms in crossed magnetic and electric fields in silica aerogel with 20-nm voids live
up to 10 µs. This is somewhat longer than the predicted lifetime owing to severe
radiation damage induced in the silica aerogel by positrons that alters k' from the
values quoted above.
Measured lifetimes in the present experiments at Positronics Research LLC are within
limits set by diffusion to the trap walls. This is consistent with the expectation that Ps
atoms "stabilized" in crossed magnetic and electric fields will be "delocalized" and drift
freely across magnetic field lines.
Future experiments at Positronics Research LLC will use super-dilute media (R = 1,000
nm), large container volumes (10 cm), weak magnetic fields (< 0.1 Tesla), and electric
fields. Substitution of R = 1,000 nm into Equation 2, assuming again a high vacuum
and crossed magnetic and electric field suppression of self-annihilation, predicts a
lifetime of 61 milliseconds. Assuming the following results are consistent with this
prediction, it will be demonstrated beyond any reasonable doubt that Ps can be
stabilized against "self-annihilation" in crossed fields.
To ultimately reach lifetimes of months and years required by aerospace propulsion,
oscillating electric-gradient-field-confinement forces will be required to keep Ps atoms
off the walls of a high-vacuum trap. Ps atoms will be produced by a beam of low-energy
positrons intercepting silica aerogel and be stabilized in the trap using crossed magnetic
and electric fields. Ps in crossed magnetic and electric fields has an enormous electric
dipole moment, and confinement using the classical p•VE force looks very encouraging
at this time.
Conclusions
Conceptual designs and missions for turbojets, turbo-ramjet missiles, and
interplanetary rockets powered by positron annihilation have been presented. Positron
requirements range from 150 micrograms for a globe-encircling UAV turbojet flight to
100 milligrams for a mission to Mars. A positron-powered SSRV could take off from
Earth horizontally, go to LEO, launch to Mars for a 1-year exploration of the Red Planet,
and return to LEO and then Earth with a horizontal landing without refueling.
Within 10 years, the 150 µg of positrons required for a globe-encircling, nonstop
turbojet flight could be made in 6 months at a cost of $69 million. This first-ever
antimatter voyage, approximately 90 years after Lindbergh's 1927 Spirit of St. Louis
transatlantic flight, would stir the public's imagination and eventually lead to positron­
powered exploration of the solar system in the 21st century.
27

UNCLASSIFIED/ (FOR OFFECTAL USE ONtT—

New developments in stabilizing and storing positronium atoms in a matrix of dilute
materials are encouraging. Lifetimes of 10 us have been achieved, and tens-of-
millisecond lifetimes are expected in the next round of experiments. Present limits are
due to interactions on the walls of the trap container. Application of oscillating gradient
electric fields to the huge electric dipole moment of the stable Ps atom should mitigate
this problem. With the issue of stabilization in crossed fields now settled, very long
lifetimes are but a matter of engineering!

3 O. Chamberlain, E. Segre, C. Wiegand and T. Ypsilantis, Phys. Rev. 100, 947 (1955).

5 P. Hill and C. Peterson, Mechanics of Thermodynamics of Propulsion, 2nd ed., Addison - Wesley Publishing Co.

© G. Herken, “The Flying Crowbar”, Air and Space Magazine, Vol. 5 (#1), p. 28, April/May (1990)
(http://www.merkle.com/pluto/pluto.html).

7 R. W. Bussard and R. D. DeLauer, Fundamentals of Nuclear Flight, McGraw-Hill Book Co. (1965)

8 G, A. Smith et al., “Revolutionary Positron Conversion”, Final Technical Report, AFRL Contract F08630-00-C-
0010, Eglin AFB, FL, March (2002).

2 OQ. Chamberlain, E. Segre, C. Wiegand and T. Ypsilantis, Phys. Rev. 100, 947 (1955)

11 G. A. Smith et al., “Revolutionary Positron Conversion”, Final Technical Report, AFRL Contract F08630-00-C-
0010, Eglin AFB, FL, March (2002).

12 Ibid.

13 Ibid.

14 Thid.

15 Ibid.

16 Thid.

17 Ibid.

18 Ibid.

19 Northrop-Grumman Corp: Report to Kaiser-Marquardt for HTHL blended-body SSTO engine, “Vision Vehicle Final
Report,” April 30 (1998).

20 G. A. Smith et al., “A Revolutionary Positron Based SSRV Vehicle for Application to Human Exploration and
Development of Space”, The Advanced Space Propulsion Workshop, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville,

21 Northrop-Grumman Corp: Report to Kaiser-Marquardt for HTHL blended-body SSTO engine, “Vision Vehicle Final
Report,” April 30 (1998).

22 G, A. Smith et al., “A Revolutionary Positron Based SSRV Vehicle for Application to Human Exploration and
Development of Space”, The Advanced Space Propulsion Workshop, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville,

23 Ibid.

24 Ibid.

25 Tbid.

26 Ibid.

27 G. A. Smith, “Positron Propelled and Powered Space Transport Vehicle for Planetary Missions”, NIAC Phase I
Final Report, Research Subaward No. 07605-003-048, September 1, 2005 - March 31, 2006.

28 Ibid.

23D. R. Koenig, “Experience Gained from the Space Nuclear Rocket Program (Rover),” LA-10062-H, Los Alamos
National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM., May (1986).

30 G, A. Smith, “Positron Propelled and Powered Space Transport Vehicle for Planetary Missions”, NIAC Phase I
Final Report, Research Subaward No. 07605-003-048, September 1, 2005 - March 31, 2006.

31 L. E. Thode et al., J. Propulsion and Power 14, 4 (1998).

32D, I, Poston and T. Kammash, Nuclear Science and Engineering 122, 32 (1996).

28
UNCLASSIFIED / ,502.0551-6041-USE-OfH==

UNCLASSIFIED / /POROPPECTALUSE-ONEY

33S. K. Borowski et al., “Nuclear Thermal Rocket/Vehicle Design Options for Future NASA Missions to the Moon and
Mars,” AIAA-93-4170 (NASA Tech Memorandum 107071), (1993).

34 D, I. Poston and T. Kammash, Nuclear Science and Engineering 122, 32 (1996).

35S. K. Borowski et al., “Nuclear Thermal Rocket/Vehicle Design Options for Future NASA Missions to the Moon and
Mars,” AIAA-93-4170 (NASA Tech Memorandum 107071), (1993).

36 G, A. Smith, “Positron Propelled and Powered Space Transport Vehicle for Planetary Missions”, NIAC Phase I
Final Report, Research Subaward No. 07605-003-048, September 1, 2005 - March 31, 2006.

38 G. A. Smith, “Positron Propelled and Powered Space Transport Vehicle for Planetary Missions”, NIAC Phase I
Final Report, Research Subaward No. 07605-003-048, September 1, 2005 - March 31, 2006.

39 Ibid.

40 G. Gaidos et al., “Antiproton-Catalyzed Microfission/fusion Propulsion Systems for Exploration of the Outer Solar
System and Beyond,” AIAA-98-3589, Presented at the 34th AIAA/ASME/SAE/ASEE Joint Propulsion Conference &
Exhibit (1998).

41 W. Lance Werthman, “Antiproton-Catalyzed Microfission/fusion Space Propulsion,” MS Thesis, Dept. of Aerospace
Engineering, Penn State University (1995).

42 G. A. Smith, “High Density Storage of Antimatter”, Advanced High Energy Storage Conference, MITRE Corp.,
McLean, VA, Aug. 1 (2005).

43 S.J, Hoffman and D. I. Kaplan, eds. “Human Exploration of Mars: The Reference Mission of the NASA Mars
Exploration Study Team,” NASA Special Publication 6107, JSC (1997).

44 B. G. Drake, ed. “Reference Mission Version 3.0: Addendum to the Human Exploration of Mars: The Reference
Mission of the NASA Mars Exploration Study Team,” http://ares.jsc.nasa.gov/ HumanExplore/ Exploration/

45 G. A. Smith, “High Density Storage of Antimatter”, Advanced High Energy Storage Conference, MITRE Corp.,
McLean, VA, Aug. 1 (2005).

46 J. Dion, “Stirling Radioisotope Generator”, NASA Glenn Research Center, ME 388R.2, Spring (2005).

47 Ibid.

48 G. A. Smith, “High Density Storage of Antimatter”, Advanced High Energy Storage Conference, MITRE Corp.,
McLean, VA, Aug. 1 (2005).

49 S.J, Hoffman and D. I. Kaplan, eds. “Human Exploration of Mars: The Reference Mission of the NASA Mars
Exploration Study Team,” NASA Special Publication 6107, JSC (1997).

50 B. G. Drake, ed. “Reference Mission Version 3.0: Addendum to the Human Exploration of Mars: The Reference
Mission of the NASA Mars Exploration Study Team,” http://ares.jsc.nasa.gov/ HumanExplore/ Exploration/

51S. K. Borowski et al., “Nuclear Thermal Rocket/Vehicle Design Options for Future NASA Missions to the Moon and
Mars,” AIAA-93-4170 (NASA Tech Memorandum

52 G, A. Smith, “Positron Propelled and Powered Space Transport Vehicle for Planetary Missions”, NIAC Phase I
Final Report, Research Subaward No. 07605-003-048, September 1, 2005 - March 31, 2006.

53S. J. Hoffman and D. I. Kaplan, eds. “Human Exploration of Mars: The Reference Mission of the NASA Mars
Exploration Study Team,” NASA Special Publication 6107, JSC (1997).

54 B. G. Drake, ed. “Reference Mission Version 3.0: Addendum to the Human Exploration of Mars: The Reference
Mission of the NASA Mars Exploration Study Team,” http://ares.jsc.nasa.gov/ HumanExplore/ Exploration/

55 G, A. Smith, “Positron Propelled and Powered Space Transport Vehicle for Planetary Missions”, NIAC Phase I
Final Report, Research Subaward No. 07605-003-048, September 1, 2005 - March 31, 2006.

56 C.A. Kapatanakos, J. Synchrotron Rad. 3, 268-271 (1996).

57 ILC undulator-based source, www.ippp.dur.ac.uk/~gudrid/source/BCD-source. ILC capitalization is estimated at
$9B (see www.linearcollider.org).

58 Thid.

59 Thid.

60 R, Landua, CERN, “Precision Experiments with Antiprotons”, Feb. 24 (2003).

51S. Howe et al., AIP Conf. Proc. 746, 520 (2005).

62 14 MeV Electron Linac @ $5M capitalization cost and $5M/yr operating cost (A. Herer et al., “Applications of High
Voltage High Powered Electron Beams”, IBA, Belgium, 1997).

63 G, R. Schmidt et al., J. Propulsion and Power, 16, 923 (2000).

64 J. Rejcek et al., Rad. Phys. Chem. 68, 655 (2003).

65 G. A. Smith, “High Density Storage of Antimatter”, Advanced High Energy Storage Conference, MITRE Corp.,
McLean, VA, Aug. 1 (2005).

66 C, M. Surko and R. G. Greaves, Phys. Plasmas 11, 2333 (2004).

29
UNCLASSIFIED / /®OR-O5ELGLALLUSE_ONLY..

UNCLASSIFIED/ /POROPPICTAL USE ONEY

87 G, A. Smith, “Long-Term Confinement of Dense Positron Plasmas”, Final Technical Report, AFRL Contract

68 Ibid.

69 G, A. Smith, “Positron Energy Conversion (PEC)”, 53th JANNAF Propulsion Meeting, Subcommittee on Future
Technologies for Spacecraft Propulsion (2005 0356 EA), CPIAC JSC CD43 December (2005).

70 G, A. Smith, “Stabilization and Long Term Confinement of Atomic Positronium”, Final Technical Report, AFRL
Contract F08630-02-C-0018, Eglin AFB, FL, January 23 (2007).

71S. J. Hoffman and D. I. Kaplan, eds. “Human Exploration of Mars: The Reference Mission of the NASA Mars
Exploration Study Team,” NASA Special Publication 6107, JSC (1997).

72 G, A. Smith, “Stabilization and Long Term Confinement of Atomic Positronium”, Final Technical Report, AFRL
Contract F08630-02-C-0018, Eglin AFB, FL, January 23 (2007).

73 J, Lu, “Classical Trajectory Monte Carlo Simulation of Ion-Rydberg Atom Collisions”, Ph. D. Dissertation,
University of Bielefeld, Germany, May (2003).

74 Tid.

75 kK, Sudarshan et al., J. Phys: Condens. Matter 19, 386 (2007).

76 G, A. Smith, “Stabilization and Long Term Confinement of Atomic Positronium”, Final Technical Report, AFRL
Contract F08630-02-C-0018, Eglin AFB, FL, January 23 (2007).

30
UNCLASSIFIED / *-F@R-OFFt62-USE-ONE-