-l1 of 3-

FD-302 (Rev. 5-8-10)

FFICIAL =
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION oon

Date of entry 05M /2025

On April a. 2025 F and | were interviewed |
by Supervisory Special Agent (SSA) | ti‘“‘éS@ Special

ws a. After being advised of the identity of the interviewing
agents and the nature of the interview, | and | provided the
following information:

i served six and a half years in the U.S. Army

|| served 24
years in the U.S. Army

On an evening in June or July 2011, it was dark outside when FP

was leaving his driveway located at (i hz, at
about 8 or 9 PM. ss was with a . FP who was driving the

seat. The vehicle was about fifty feet from the driveway and preparing to
make a left turn onto MMM. when they reached the intersection,

was looking out window and saw three lights in the sky. [J got out
of the vehicle, and when he looked up, he saw a massive black isosceles

investigation on 04/2025 1; GM united states i

File # ee Date drafted 04/2025
y

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Continuation of FD-302 of ,On 04/g§f/2025 ,Page 2 Of 3

triangle shaped object flying North. The object had a car-sized white light
in each of its three corners that emitted a diffuse glow and were recessed
back a bit from the corners. The object was low to the ground, and creating
a low humming noise that made a pulsing sound. Po told him to
take a video, but by the time [J got his phone out, the object had flown
over the tree line behind the houses to the north, and out of sight. He had
seen the object for approximately 10-15 seconds. There were no contrails
left behind the object. P| felt dumbfounded and awestruck during the
experience.

When | | observed the object, he was overwhelmed by the size of it and
how low it was to the ground. [J thought the object may have been 800
feet above the ground, and based on the dimensions of their environment, he
estimated the object was 200 feet long and 100 feet wide. | | believed the
object had more of an equilateral triangle shape, but based on the
calculated dimensions, it could have been more of an isosceles triangle.

The object was moving slowly and steadily, and he also heard the pulsing
sound. aa saw the three lights in the corners, but also remembered seeing
something in the middle of the triangle that was grayish or graphite
colored.

Neither | | nor | | had a clear memory of the thickness or any other
Gescription of the vertical profile of the triangle. They opined that they
were initially underneath the triangle and didn’t really have a view of its
Side or vertical profile. They were then temporarily distracted by their
unsuccessful attempt to get a phone out to video record the UAP, at the
moment when they likely would have had a better view of the back profile.

a believed a couple of people in the neighborhood also saw the object,

GME anc BJ stated they

would also would try to see if QJ as well as their neighbors
who witnessed the UAP, would be willing to write a statement about their
observation, or speak to the FBI about it.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)
Interview of fF and |
Continuation of FD-302 of ,On 04/g§/2025 , Page 3 of 3