Orricia, Reconp |
OCecumant haven

FD-1057 (Rev. 5-8-10) Ge
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Electronic Communication

Title: PP ee at FP Date: 11/9/2024

From:

a
Contact: i i
approved Sy: is

case 1 +:

GMM Unidentified Aerial Phenomenon

Unidentified Anomalous
Phenomenon (UAP)

synopsis: [BBB car observations 2t i a a

Enclosure(s): Enclosed are the following items:
Photos taken on 11 2024
Photos taken on lil 2024
Photos taken on 11 2024
Photos taken 11 2024
Photos taken 11 2024

Title: UAP Observations at [x [7
Re: 11/2024

On 11/2024, special Agents (SA) i GS a2 co
visited the hone of i i i .: as ay

Gs «) sthe purpose of the visit was confirm reports and video that
P| had previously provided of Unidentified Aerial Phenomenon (UAP)
over the last three years. At the time of the surveillance, the weather

Was approximately 48 degrees, with overcast conditions and no

precipitation. The official sunset time was

a At approximately 4:45pm, Agents and | | went out to P| patio
on the north side of his home. f initially pointed out lights in the

distance which believed to be homes and other permanent structures.
P| also pointed to lights which | claimed to be eight miles away and
could not be certain what those light sources were.

a Approximately twenty minutes later, SA QJ observed what |_|

believed to be a UAP. In the direction of I sa GJ saw a

white pulsation of light appear. The light appeared to be at the northern
edge of QJ and began to move Reicontatiy with somewhat erratic
movements. The light did not appear to reflect off the water of P|
MMMM giving the possibility that the light source was over the wooded
area to the north side of PF The light source did not appear to
illuminate the area below it or the surface of Ps The light
appeared to an altitude at or below the tree line. The white light danced
around less than ten seconds, moving side to side, and then disappeared.

mm Within the tree line to the west of f home, there were other
lights observed by Agents. On multiple occasions, SA f observed
white lights appear at the top of the tree line. These lights would pulse
and flash it white/blue hue and then disappear. These lights did not
appear to move as erratically and seemed to be more stationary. SA yy
also observed plumes of broad light appearing for several seconds before
a flash of light, either red or white appeared, and moved erratically
before disappearing.

| SA BBM attempted to capture observed UAP activity and these
photos are attached to this communication. Five photos were taken,
however the photos were mostly blurry and do not provide much context. It

3

xe: NS 11/202

was later determined that a tripod or other stable platform would be
required as the long exposure of the camera aperture would not yield
clear images.

| NS approximately 5:15pm, a | | and QI arrived hone,

Agents and JJ went inside briefly to meet them before returning to the
patio.

MM at approximately 5:30pm, SA Gs anc sa QJ observed what they

believed to be a UAP in the same location of J that sa 3

had seen the possible UAP. The UAP appeared as a bright white light above
a bright red light at the far end of the pond hovered at a approximately
tree-top height, moved quickly from right to left, disappeared, then re-
appeared simultaneously where it had first appeared, moved quickly from
right to left and disappeared again. Both Agents observed this activity.

| | Agents and ; remained on the patio and backyard, observing
activity until approximately 6:10pm before going back inside a home
to download the most recent photos and videos J had taken of activity
behind I residence

» Agents discontinued surveillance and departed P| home at
approximately 6:15pm.