-1 of 3-
FD-302 (Rev. 5-8-10)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date of entry 10 / 2025

On October | F 2025 Po was interviewed PO by
Supervisory Special Agent (SSA) Po Special Agent (SA) f
, and Task Force Officer (TFO) PY After being advised
of the identity of the interviewing agents and the nature of the interview,
provided the following information:

WR frequently watches aircraft, military, commercial and civilian
fly in the airspace above and around Colorado Springs.

On October | OF 2023 between 8-9:30PM, J was working
Colorado Springs, Colorado. [x

and began looking up, admiring the stars on a clear night.

s a looked up, he noticed a very bright star in the sky, which
initially drew his attention. [JJ was observing the star for about 5-10
seconds when he noticed movement in his left peripheral vision. f |
looked further up and to his left and saw what appeared to be a dark-gray

invesignion on 10/9/2025 1 TT MME, united states i

by

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. [t is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Continuation of FD-302 of J Interview of JN On 10/2025 Pee: 2 OF 3

colored cloud phasing into his sight. The cloud was stationary in the sky,
and §MJ stated it looked very strange, as if it was pixelated or distorted
in some other manner. As he watched the cloud, he saw a constant, diffuse
red light on the bottom front point of a solid black triangular shaped
object coming out of the cloud towards the south, southeast. The object
behind the point became wider and larger as it exited the cloud until | |
saw the entire equilateral triangular object with a red light in each of the
three corners. | | estimated the triangle UAP was very large and could
have been as large as the parking lot in which he was standing. He estimated
the UAP was the equivalent of 3-5 stories in thickness. Based upon f
memory, at arm’s length, each of the three lights on the triangle UAP was
the size of a fingernail.

Initially the UAP was moving south and slightly east at a steady speed
comparable to a helicopter. P| believed the UAP was at an altitude of
3000-5000 feet, comparable to small civilian aircraft in training flights.
It then almost instantaneously accelerated to possibly Mach 1 or 2 and
turned slightly, heading directly south or sightly southwest. P| noticed
there appeared to be waves surrounding and radiating from the object. de
compared the waves to the mirage effect that can be observed when you look
down a hot road into the distance. f | did not hear the object make any
noise, could not see any form of propulsion, and did not smell anything out
of the ordinary. P| believed the object was almost directly over his
position, possibly over the ii _7_ as
GINS (sé: the object moved, it abruptly banked 90 degrees on its left
side with its three lights still visible while veering towards the right,
and then it quickly banked back down to level flight. The banking motion
was opposite of a conventional aircraft would bank in the direction it was
turning.

f | lost sight of the object as it went over the Pe

from his perspective, towards the south. [J looked back to
where it originally came into view and noticed that the dark-gray cloud had
disappeared. He called his wife about 60 seconds later to tell her about
the event, and she said that his voice sounded robotic, as if there was
electronic interference occurring with the call. P| cell phone service

provider was i’

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Continuation of FD-302 of J Interview of ,On 10/2025 page 3 Of 3