on autho
natic De

classificati

De

tion

assifica

c

Bl Autor

om F

WED ON

EVIE

FOR

FOI/PA

* Hone a

Meee dee

te ee

Sais i a

em ee mee a

esi de sn i a a a

i i i a mr i i i

PRINTING OFFICE

‘Us 8. GOVERNMENT

ss SAC, SEATTLE August 12,

ss LOYD A, DUCOMMUN ; ,

«SEMI -MONTHLY CONFERENCE

DLO,13ND, OSI, RO No, 3, |

= eenh-maniihy iateliignase conference was held at the

| offices of Col, SPENCER RAYNOR, Commanding Officer, 20th District,

Office of Special Investigations, Field, Washington, |

| Major Robert Les Ager |

: Commander RR. A, Kotria :

: 2 Capt. Joseph M. Nowicki, Bist AAA, #t. Lewis, Wn,

l ae  ~‘Br 2S 2 . ee

i RE Pred %, |

i ss BA Eeloyd A, Ducommun , :

| pane apa oNgpertgnation case - SYLVIA MARGARET FLESKAC, was. SE
| ao that an officer of the Air Vorce was blackmailing —

| her, Gol, Raynor said that he had called the Commanding Officer

| «of the GID in Fort Lewis and had learned that the Subject had =
| been in San Francisco and that the CID at Fort Lewis was checking :
| (Be Bet ME she Bad Gepated fer, or received, metieel 016 slicging i
| «Be -‘be & dependent of a man in the military service, He said that =
| he has been barred from McChord Base, Col, Raynor requested that
o. ar —r—“—s—s™s—S—SSCSCSN sf seancHeo 2A innexeo 4 oe
a 94-207 FE SEwoRMATION coNTARED [SERIALIZED atte ef
|) epee. UD Ce I Crs—<‘COiC‘COiC
a Bas sie — ee | eee
| A Sieh ow cia ih nie coe a pe Oe CU sa a allemaal a Ss c y : ua Ze :

| NW 90291

} Docid:34714596 Page 4

Docld:34714596 Page 5

a - March Be ;3bus, ‘in ‘the cant

otic nt Pour otrine. peu | to
ge ule veren sel to. determine —

| NW 90291
| Docld:34714596 Page 7

SEATTLE POST INTELLIGENCEN

PAGEcadeCOLiead omy

SERIALIZED“ AZLAFTED......

| 2 : : oe FD-71 ©
Federal Bureaw of Investigation

United States Department of Justice

COMPLAINT FORM 2
UNKVOW OBJECT = POSSTBLE FLYING SAUCER. MRS. NELVAR |
Subject's Name and Aliases Name of Complainant |
DOUGLAS HOTEL
: 7 Address of Complainant
UPPER STRATOSPHERE OF THE UNIVERSE.
‘pares of. Spe bject ‘Telephone Number of Complainant
BI G SAUCER. : - 10:35P.M. 1l0<23—52
Character of Case ae Date and Time ese Received

DESCRIPTION OF SUBJECT: Object vesubiek a falling star, with one exception; as object.
ree ee Ter nnn One

was falling, it seemed to suddenly change course. Object was a round difused light.

this date. At the time she was standing in front of the above named hotel and observed the -

object moving from overhead to an easterly position.

This is all the information that the complainant could offer. She

stated that she would immediately call the Bureau in the event she xm could furnish any

more information.

The above is submitted for record purposes and what ever action

you deem necessary,

ACTION RECOMMENDED BY AGENT:

| Nw 90291
| Docld:34714596 Page 9

ie areca ie em aS aH ma mer et aR - ee

STANDARD FORM NO, 64

Office Memorandum + unrrep states GOVERNMENT _
TO: Sac, SEATTLE (65-new) | DATE: 2-13-53
FROM : SA W, MARK FELT

SUBJECT: SIGHTING OF UNUSUAL OBJECTS

At 10:30 A.M., 2/10/53 Miss DELMA J. SEGRAM, Seattle
Civil Defense, telephonically contacted the office to advise that
a Mrs? WISKERKEN (first name not obtained), 7355 - 33rd N. E.,
informed by telephone at 10:10 A.M. the same date that she, Mrs.
WISKERKEN, had observed a very large object "quite high" directly
above and somewhat West of Sand Point Naval Air Station. Mrs.
WISKERKEN described the object as very like a large parachute and
stated that it was "so silver" that she could hardly look at it.
After approximately two minutes the object appeared to fade away
to the North. !

The above information was furnished to Colonel SPENCER
RAYNOR, OSI; to SA SULLIVAN of IFO #3, and to Lt. Commander ROBERT
KING, DIO, 13th ND, at 10:45 and 10:50 A.M. respectively.

On 2/12/53 Mr. BRANDES, IFO #3 furnished SA DUCOMMUN the
following information:

BRANDES stated that other Intelligence dgencies had been
notified. According to BRANDES, Mrs. KATHLEEW CARTER, 4499 Union
Bridge Lane, Seattle, an employee of the Signal Division, Seattle
Port of Embarkation, informed IFO #3 at 1627 hours on 2/10 last
that at approximately 1508 hours on 2/9/53 while passing over the
University Bridge in a bus she observed a bright object in the sky
high over Sand Point Naval Air Station, but a little to the south,
She said the sky was fairly clear at the time and it was the extreme
brightness of the object which called her attention to it. She
could furnish no description and no information as to the speed of
the object. No one else on the bus observed the object.

| NW 90291
| Docld:34714596 Page 10

| NW 90291

COPY —

1405 Haupt Ave,
Richland, Washington

16 July 1953

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Building 762

 Handford Works

Richland, Washington
Gentlemen:
On the afternoon of July 15th, 1953, I had taken off

the afternoon to entertain guests from Portland and was engaged
in small talk about the various target shooting equipment I

Rave accumulated, My guest and I spotted an object in the sky —

which appeared to be a large kite. We turned my 30 power
Bausch and Lomb observation telescope on the object and it
turned out to be a large sheet of brown paper at about 10,000
feet elevation, Having been impressed with the tremendous
resolving power of the instrument we scanned the skies with our
naked eye for other objects such as birds at high altitude,

Our reward for this observation was most remarkable,

At about 14:30 hours we sighted a bright shimmering speck
at very extreme altitude, perhaps 30,000 feet perhaps much
lower. This speck hovered at a north azimuth to Richland of
about 80 degrees, I tried to pick up the object in the telescope
and while trying to locate it in the very small field, about
15 minutes angle, my friend located another similar speck a
Short distance away. At this time we were convinced that they
were birds, but had not yet sighted one in the glass because
of the small field. Suddenly one of the specks ceased hovering
and darted off to the west and disappeared, Still not giving
this much thought I continued to search for the original object.
After about three minutes searching I was able to bring it under
observation and held it continuously for a period of two minutes

until 14:44 hours, ; ee :
Jog 18 GLp-5 — Fo

At first I thought I had found a large bird, but closer

examination proved to be an unusual object. The first glances

gave an impression of a heliocopter with the rotor stationary,

but I was soon convinced I had never seen anything like this

before. No heliocopter has wings too, nor hovers with a

Stationary rotor, I shouted to my guests and all four held the

bright speck under observation until it eventually disappeared,

As I examined the object in the glass very carefi yt seemed .

eg a

MUG4 15

FBI - SEATTLE 79

| Docld:34714596 Page 11

NW 90291

dise-like body. I cannot be sure as the object only covered
about one fortieth of the diameter of the field, which would
make it about 20 seconds of arc; it was either very small or
very high. At no time did any part appear to rotate, but the
heliocopter like arms, four in number, appeared to be surrounded
by a thin vaporous ring about witish blue in color. The
attached sketch, showing the object as it appeared from the
bottom will give you my last impression. Just as I had become
convinced this was a radar target balloon made of transparent
plastic, the object began to move. It moved at incredible
speed toward the east disappearing on the eastern horizon in
about 10 seconds. The latter motion could only be observed
with the naked eye due to the tremendous speed,

I spend about 4 hours a week looking through this glass
while target shooting and am confident that I observed a
factual object of very unusual nature. As you will find upon
examination I am a design supervisor in charge of the CA 512 R

-design encompassing some rather important aspects of the present

expansion program, being designed by the Engineering Department
of the General Electric Company. I deal strictly in facts,

and hope you will treat this report factually. I am willing
to enlarge upon this matter if called on to do so; no short
discription being adequate.

jincerely yours,

PPROBERT T, JASKE /s/

Docid:34714596 Page 12

Docld

34714596 Page 13

| Nw 90291

1015 Second Avenue
Seattie 4, Washington
August 10, 1953

Colonel Spencer Raynor

Commanding Officer

20th District

Office of Special Investigations
McChord Air Force Base. ——

Dear Sir:

I am enclosing for your information and any action you
deem appropriate a letter deted July 16, 1953. received from
Robert T. Jaske, 1405 Haupt Avenue, Richland. Washington, con-—
cerning an unusual object he et in the oy over  Richiend,
Washington, on July 15, 1953.

Immediately upon receipt of this Setter the moter was
taken up with the Security Division of the Atomic Energy Com
mission eat Richland, Weshington, inasmuch as the object was
sighted in an area over the AEC reservation space.

Mr. 0. R. Simpson, Assistant Chief, Security oie, ;
AEC, checked with the Fifth AAA Group and determined that —
had released a meteorol gical belloon equipped with radic and
other meteorologicel equipment at 2:05 1 ma. on July 15, 1953.

Jost it at that height going in the same area 8s described by

No further snguhi wetk ‘ws sek ag thie etvien

Sincerely,

Special ‘Agent in Charge
100-18945 /

| Docld:34714596 Page 15

The Fifth AAA Group radar had tracked it at 25,000 feet and _ ;

[a0-BGYE- UY

| NW 90291

: SAC, SEATTLE (200-19550) So ae
SA DOUGLAS J. KRAUTER ; -
UNUSUAL OBJECT IN AIR

ATTENTION: SA _DUCOMMUN

On this date Mr. ALLEN EDDY, in charge of CIC Resident Agency,

’sRichland, Washington, contacted the writer and requested that he meet with

Mr. EDDY at the office of Mr. J. F. McHALE of the AEC Security Division.
The reason was to relate a report which he had received concerning some
unusual objects seen over the Hanford Reservation area at 9320 PeM. on
August 2, 1953.

Mr. EDDY advised that he had been contacted by Mr. A. i. MOOKE,
2433 Clearwater Avenue, Kennewick, Washington. The objects were also
seen by Mrs. MAKY ELEANOR HODSON, 2504 Clearwater, Kennewick, who is
employed as a nurse at Kadlec Hospital, Richland.

Mr. EDDY advised that they had related to him that on the evening
of August 2 while finishing an outdoor supper in Mr. MOORE's yard in
Kennewick, they had noticed two reddish-orange balls of fire going at a
speed estimated by Mr. MOORE as very fast and actually stated by him to
be about three times as fast as a B-47 flies. He stated that these
objects were traveling south by west, almost due west, were very brilliant,
and disappeared when dropping over the horizon over Rattlesnake Mountain
which borders the southwest edge of the Hanford Reservation.

Mr. EDDY advised that Mr. MOORE appeared to be a very substantial
individual who was very sincere in this story.

At the meeting, Mr. McHALE contacted his airport and ascertained
that there had been no reports of any radar testing or any planes over the
area at the particular time involved. Mr. McHALE himself landed in the
AEC plane at 9:15 p.m. and stated that neither he nor the two pilots had
noticed anything unusual while they were coming in for the landing.

It was Mr. McHALE's feeling that very possibly the objects seen were some
slight fog banks which he had noticed forming, ‘Showing up in the Pasco

airport beacon. ye. lids <4E

Bureau to pass the

‘Mr. EDDY advised that he would like for 7a .

a FOIA(b)(3) - 50 USC 3024(i)(1) - Inteligence Sources anc

} Docld:34714596 Page 16

NW 90291
| Docld:34714596

1015 Second Avenue
Seattle 4, Washington
August 5, 1953

Haupt Avenue
iehland, Washington

This will acknowledge your recent letter concert ,
chject tigated by you in the vicinity of Richlani, Washington On

the day the letter was received the matter was referred to the Secur-
ity Division of the Atomic Energy Commission since it appeared that
such information would be of primary interest to that organization
and to the Army and Air Force, ae

You may be assured that your report will be treated factually.
In the event any of the interested services desire to contact you
farther, they will probably do so directly.

I appreciate your interest in referring this to our attention,
and hope that anything else which comes to your attention which you
think might be of interest to this office will be referred to us.

Very truly yours,

R.), AUERBACH

JOO AE IVS — +6

Page 18

Federal Bureau of Investigation = |
‘United States Bepartment of Justice

COMPLAINT FORM

a

FYYING Avis

Subject's Name and Aliases

cy FA
Address of CompLatnany
: 22 20H 6325 ee
Address of Subject . Polepone Number of Complainant ae

: Tal he ! :
Character of Case | Date and Time Complaint Received —

DESCRIPTION OF SUBJECT:

i OF sso Lee called this date advising * he had just seena an object te

ge OTe ls tn ne ote etl
| given the abowe information, _ ae o Dial —

| ACTION RECOMMENDED BY AGENT:

| No additional action

| A ee amet :

/ f [ seancreD.. z , ee

| SERIALAE is

: OE ncaa

See

| NW 90291
| Docid:34714596 Page 19

Sederal Burear nf Investigation |
|“ Mntteh States Department of Justice
id COMPLAINT FORM g5- ?

Subject's Name and Aliases Nameof Complainant

Address of Complainant

A ae ene ee eee
Address of Subject Telephone Number of Complainant

Character of Case Date and Tee Complaint Received

DESCRIPTION OF SUBJECT:

FACTS OF COMPLAINT:

Complaiannh stated he had seen two metallic objects in the sky
moving wester] taking about 13 hours to travel from above him to the horizén. He stated

che could not say thew weee metal bub they had » metallic lustre. He stated they heme

about # to 10 degrees apabt and he guessed they were about 30 miles up and about 1000
feet in diameter. He stated he and his neighbors saw them aad he watched them through ©

binoculars. He stated that he saw little pips of white smoke eject from them every

is aocned they had sen the ebiecte. ie saek es he ssaucet baars vas a gondole type
object hanging from the under side of the objects

ACTION RECOMMENDED BY AGENT:
ROUTE TO AGENT DUCOMMUN
oo 4 / 7 LX -
SEARCHED A iNDEXED. 2
JES serianees DEE i

| J. FRANCIS SULLIVAN
Special Agent

| Nw 90291
) Docid:34714596 Page 20

FROM $A A Joseph P. Mac Farland oe a . 8.03 aM
f0O-lE GEST
Abn hh Soatnn

Colonel ame. Me Gon ‘Field by ‘elehene advised that in lant saute edition

of the Tacoma News Tribune an artice appears about the observation of
«three policemen of Tacoma of flying saucers. The article stated that
Oliver Tiedeman stated to the paper that he was much impressed about the |

. closeness of the saucers. His observation apparently was made while en |
route from Poty—-Mc Chord Field to Chehalis. These saucers, five or six
having been obs erved by other TE pibcsca eg travelled she a pared ene ke
northerly direction. -

- SUBJECT: : PEYING SAUCERS

The Colonel stated that he would have the news article typed and forwarded to this
office .

No report of the incidence was made to the Air Corp and no action ts oulee is be
taken by the said Corp. :

| NW 90291
Docld:34714596 Pade 21

STANDARD FORM NO, 64

Office Memorandum ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO >: Sac | DATE: 6/7/54

7:40 AM

FROM : A] ‘Iau = Night Clakk

SUBJECT: STGHTING OF UNIDENTIFIED

OBJECTS OVER PASCO, WASH.
6/6/54, 11:35 Pa

P. Ve HOWELL, Chief, Counter Intelligence, 20th OSI, advised as follows:

GAIL PECK, Pasco, Wash., Phone Pasco 6054, supervisor of a local ground
observer group at pasco, reported sighting two half-moon shaped objects about
six times as large as a half moon. One object formed into a large fhre-ball, the
original color of both objects was white, and the other formed into two fireballs.
Both objects were estimated to be at about 1000 feet altitude. The distance
could not be estimated. The objects were both at a five degree angle from the
line of sight of the observer, The location was slightly north of Pascoo
The location has been pinpointed on the Aeronical planning map at grid coordinate
AB 5517. They were obsefved for a period of ten minutes» .

The Intelligence Officer, 25th Air Division is not going to submit a
written report, however he will follow this verbal report up with a letter to
this office. He has not made a report to the press and it is assumed that they
received their information from local sources.

AFL/

| NW 90291
| Docld:34714596 Pane 7?

| NW 90291

Dear Sir: ee Le r—“_OO__ :
| ~Reperting of Unidentified Flying bjocts (ures) oe

Fo "DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE ; ;
ie “wexoauair UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ! Se PVHims
ee WASHINGTON aehar .

THE INSPECTOR GENERAL USAF
20th DISTRICT OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
McCHORD AIR FORCE BASE, McCHORD FIELD, WASHINGTON
20D OSI 24-0 : 10 June 1954

Mr. Be D a Auerbach 2 : 2
Special Agent in Charge

Federal Bureau of Investigation

1015 Second Avenue
Seattle: hs ; mee

Attached is. a copy” oe a | sevepeper erticl: reference ebje whieh
appeared in the Tacoma News oe afternoon edition, 3 June 195he -

- Major EUGENE Le. ‘ZECHMEISTER, Director ot ‘Intelligence, - 25th Air”
Division (Defense), McChord AFB, ae queried on 4 June 1954 as to the ©
information contained in this newspaper article, Major ZECHMBISTER —
stated that no report on this: ‘UFOB had been received by his office a

that information contained in the newspaper article was not of sufficient a oo |

substance to warrant investigation oid the War, ao
On 4 June 1954 at 0810 hours, the beherniion contained in She news~ o

paper article and the information received from Major ZECHMEISTER was

telephonically reported to the Duty ets Seattle Field Division, FBI.

The above is for your deter and no Investigation of this mat

ter is contemplated by this district office.

‘Sincerely, ‘

2 Imel =
sont Clipping

Bolensl, oe fl A
‘District Commands ~—/

| Docid:34714596 Page 24

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ; PVH: ms
WASHINGTON :

THE INSPECTOR GENERAL USAF

20th DISTRICT OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
20D OI 24-0 McCHORD AIR FORCE BASE, MeCHORD FIELD, WASHINGTON

Mr, R, D, Auerbach 10 June 1954

Special Agent in Charge -
Federal Bureau of Investigation

1015 Second Avenue

Seattle 4, Washington

Dear Sir: Re: (Unclassified) Pea
Reporting of Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOB)

SPECIAL INQUIRY

On 7 June 1954 at 0735 hours, the following information was trans-
mitted by Special Agent PHILIP V. HOWELL, JR., this office, to the Duty
Agent, Seattle Field Division, FBI,

On 7 June 1954, Major EUGENE L. ZECHMEISTER, Director of Intelli-
gence, 25th Air Division (Defense), McChord AFB, reported to this office
that two unidentified flying objects had been sighted simultaneously by
GALE PECK, Supervisor of local Ground Observer Corps Post, Pasco, Washing-
ton, telephone Pasco 6054, The objects were described as traveling to-
gether and were in the shape of half~moons, approximately six times larger
than a half-moon and of a white color. The two objects formed into one
large fireball and disappeared, after being observed for approximately
10 minutes, The time of the sighting was given as 2335 hours, 6 June 1954
and the geographical references were AB5517, Aeronautical Planning Chart
1 to 5,000,000, The altitude was estimated to be 1,000 feet, speed un-
known, and the object was at a 5 degree angle to the horizon,

Ma jor ZECHMEISTER stated that the report of the sighting was not con-
sidered to be of sufficient substance to warrant investigation by the ee

On § June 1954 at 2115 hours, Major COURTLAND D. SAWTELLE, Public In-
formation Officer, 25th Air Division (Defense), advised this office that —
in response to inquiries by newspaper reporters with reference to this
sighting, the PIO was making an official release that there had been no
radar pickup of the UFOB in question, This information was telephonically
transmitted to the Duty Agent, Seattle Field Division, FBI, at e125 hours,
8 June 1954, by Special Agent HOWELL,

The above is for your informtion and no inv
is contemplated by this Gani tes office.

ey 4
cc: Dir OST SPENCER W. Ht Me

Colonel, USAF io ViFO ao,
cick Co MAC a bas

id

SMAMA—Dec 53—10M

NW 90291
Docld:34714596 Page 25

Ee — 2 : DEPARTMENT oF THE AIR FORCE ge: &
SO "HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR pORCE : PVH: ms
ee WASHINGTON :

: THE INSPECTOR GENERAL USAF
20th DISTRICT OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
McCHORD AIR FORCE BASE, MeCHORD FIELD, WASHINGTON

20D OSI 24-0 10 June 1954

Me, Ry Dy Auerbach

Special Agent in Charge
Federal Bureau of Investigation
1015 Second Avenue

Seattle 4, Washington

Dear Sir: (edassiticd)
| _ Reporting: of Unidentified 1 Hifing Objects (wo)
: SPRCLAL iN UIRY

Ref erence is made to the ste ‘newspaper wae won pers
in the afternoon edition of the =o Mews Tribune of 8 June 1904. eo

nies EUGENE. ee ZECHMEISTER, Director oe Intelligence, 25th Air oo ae
ision (Defense), McChord AFB, was queried with reference to the epiicle
and advised that no report on the UFOB had been received by the 25th Air © S
Division (Defense), Major ZECHMEISTER further advised that the telephone
number of the McChord Air Force Base Tower is restricted and cannot be
obtained through the McChord Air Force Base Operators. Major ‘GECHMELSTER
advised that the information contained in the newspaper article Was not
of sufficient substance to warrant investigation by the USAR. ae

; At. approximately 1930 ae, 8 June 1954, the information. contained
oe in the attached newspaper article and information obtained from Major _

| ‘ZECHMEISTER was ve — to the Ze eo, Seattle Field
Division, rl, ee

The above is te your ‘Anformtion aad no investigation of ‘this matter
is contemplated by this district office, a

Siuvarely A

1 Incl , ST somcm x, RAYN nf >=
Newspaper clipping Fe —, USAR

| NW 90291
) Docid:34714596 Page 27

al , pare: 7™me 9, 1954

FROM ; §.A. L.A. Dacommrm

SUBJECT: Flying Saucers

@ At av-roximately 7:80 PM on 6/8/*% Colonel Reynor, OSI

MCChord AFB telenhoned that an item in the Tacoma NewS Tribune in-
dicated that a transit driver for the Tacoma bus commany had seen a
filvine saucer on the vrevious nicht over Tacoma. Colonel Reynor seid
that he wes checking with the Orerations Office at @a McChord to see
if it had been revorted to them.

I called Major Robinson R - 2 and vassed on Colonel Raynor's

eal,

gIF SE -S CA”
SERIALIZED.JE Fen —

JUND 1954

FBI - SEATTLE

NW 90291
Docld:34714596 Page 29

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Offi ce Memorandum ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO —-* SAC SEATTLE DATE: 6/22/54,

FROM : sa J. FRANCIS SULLIVAN

[00 {SVO2

SUPJECT‘UNTDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS3 Neah Bay 6/22/54

At 11:10 PM this date Special Agent Phil Howell OSI telephonically contacted
this office to report that an identified flying object was picked up by the Radar
station at Neah Bay between 1930 and 1945 this date. The object was 38 to 40 miles
S.W. of Neah Ray at an Altitude of 1500 to 2000 feet.Two planes were "scrambled"from
McChord Field to intercept and pisked up a"blip" on the radar scopes in their planes.
The "blip" separated into two “blips't as they were watching. They chased the "bkips"
: for 8 to 12 minutes. The "blips" faded from the scopes presumably f/¢ because of
| fast air speed. The objects flew South then turned east when they faded. None of the
pilots sighted the objects visually. The pilots were being interrogated by the intell- ao
gence officer at McChord. Other Radar stations were being contacted to ascertain if
any further sightings were made. The 25th Air Division is submitting a report to
to the Aib Technical Intelligence Center, Wright Patterson Field, Ohio.

HOWELL stated the report was received from the Intelligence Officer of the

2 25th Air Division. a
The above information was furnished to GEORGE DAVIS of CTC at 11:25PM this

date. Attempts to furnish information to DIO 13ND. were to no avail as no iia

officer was available at DIO.

| NW 90291
| Docid:34714596 Page 30

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE HLW irs
WASHINGTON

THE INSPECTOR GENERAL USAF

20th DISTRICT OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
MeCHORD AIR FORCE BASE, McCHORD FIELD, WASHINGTON

20D OSI 24-0 : 24 June 1954

Mr. R. D. Auerbach

Special Agent in Charge

Federal Bureau of Investigation
1015 Second Aveme

Seattle, Washington Lert

Re: Unidentified Fl Ob jects

Dear Sir:

The following is quoted for your information from an Intelligence
Summary, 25th Air Division to Air Technical Intelligence Center, Wright-
Patterson AFB, Ohio, concerning Unidentified Flying Objects, as reported
to Special Agent SULLIVAN, your office, on 22 June 1954:

"SUMMARY

"FLYING OBJECT REPORT GROU ND AND ATRBORNE coi SIGHTINGS OF

4n unknown blip or target was picked up on TIMOTHY radar control
scope in Georef LE 1604, estimated 200 knot speed, estimated altitude
15 angles, originally at 0314Z and intermittently thereafter for a
total of three (3) sightings by TIMOTHY within a ten (10) minute period
after which time blip or target remained off. Upon first pickup,
TIMOTHY relayed information to MERCURY (Direction Center) who took —
immediate ection to vector two fighter interceptors, Pronto Blue #1
and 2, (who were on CAP, at 04002) off CAP to vicinity of blip or
target. Pronto Blue #2 obtained an airborne reader pickup lower left
portion scope, approximately twenty-eight (28) miles from blip or
target which separated into two "clear distinct" blips at 04352;
altitude 25,000 feet. Blue #2 attempted to close on 30 degree port
heading in attempt to center blip, descending from 25,000 feet to
6,000 feet and to within estimated six (6) miles with speed increas-
ing from .85 to .9 Mach. Blip then slid off scope from 30 degree port
to 60 degree port. Blue #1 obtained an airborne radar pickup at 30

“ degrees at approximately 0436Z at 20,000 feet altitude. Blue #1 held

| NW 90291
| Docld:34714596 Page 31

pickup for approximately twenty (20) seconds, or three s pea S. pi a
radar after which time blips or targets slid off scope “OO degrees
port to 60 degrees port.

nw 90291
Docld:34714596 Page 32

20D OSI 24-0

‘Unidentified Flying Ghia

24 June 1954

: "Information for this Severs was received from Senior Controller, |
GCI Site, TIMOTHY; Senior Controller, Direotion Center, MERCURY:
Senior Controller, Division Combat Center, LAST CHANCE; the two
F-86D pilots; a 25th Air Division pilot who was flying locally in
T-35 and who heard all ground~air trensmissions between F-86D pilots
and ground stations.

"RELIABILITY

A. (Pronto Blue #2) 2nd Lt Edward E. McBride, 317th Fighter
Interceptor Squadron, 1124C pilot; approximately 145 hours, of which
over half has been in fighter-interceptor work; approximately 270
hours in fighter aircraft; for approximate total hours of 463.

B. (Pronto Blue #1) ‘ond Lt Hilson L. Sewell, 317th Fighter
Interceptor Squadron; approximately 29 hours in F-86D airoreft; 80
hours (approximately) in fighter aircraft; 251 hours other type air-
eraft; for a total of 360 hours. The F-86D pilots were interrogated
singly by Major Eugene L. Zechmeister, Director of Intelligence and
CWO Odin E. Sorensen, Asst Director of Intelligence, within four (4)
hours of incident.

C. At the time of first mode return picked up by TIMOTHY,
question arose as to possibility of malfunction. The site Tech
Representative was on hamid and monitored scope. In his opinion,
malfunction of radar was definitely ruled out.

D. All weather stations, as well as Seattle AMIS; Navy; Coast
Guard; 5 ADDC at Vancouver, B.C. Canada, were checked with negative
results, ruling out possibility of weather balloons; boats or ships;
or aircraft. One Navy P2V was found to be flying at time, but over
one-hundred (100) miles from location of incident. A slight 3 degree
inversion at 5,000 feet was present at 1900, but would possibly af-
fect only a Limited ares.

E. The F-86D pilots were queried at great length in reference
to the size and general appearance of blips presented on scopes.
Both pilots appeared to have a very clear and firm concept of the
difference between the observed blips as opposed to Seaborne blips
and B=-36, B-52 type blips previously encountered.

‘F. All statements were obtained individually either in person
or by telephone, ruling out possibility of subconscious innocent
collusion. Superficially, al1 statements appear to support one
another and to coincide.

; 20p ost ool0lhm™mh
Bee Unidentified Flying Objects
Re June 1954 :

"EVALUATION

The blips or targets observed are tentatively evaluated as true
airborne targets, similar in presentation size and general configura-
tion (on ground-based and airborne equipment) to B-36, B-52 type air-
craft with an estimated pullout speed of Mach One or better."

At the present time the Director of Intelligence does not expect any
further information concerning this incident. In the event there are further
developments, your office will be immediately advised.

/ SPENCER W. RAYNOR //
Colonel, USAF
District Commander

ec: Dir OSI

| NW 90291
| Docld:34714596 Page 33

FD-71
“Mien » States Picersarat of  Iustice (7-80-48)

| Bederal Bureau nf Investigation

IN ‘REPLY, PLEASE REFER na
FILE No. — ,
| COMPLAINT FORM Wier sant Fi. EWEK A ;
UNI DENT IFIED Soe : hadi Ain Rovre Janrerc. Cow pao

Cu CENTEL. —
A* Me, , Wark fer Civic Azgonautics Abus:

Subject 's Name and Aliases _ Name of Complainant

EA-7AC_ ARPORT

dress of Complainant
RAY -6/0D

arn ‘
Address of Subject Telephone Number of Complainant
Character of Case Date ahd Tine Complaint Received

DESCRIPTION OF SUBJECT:

__P et - “SEAL ILE

ues

| NW 90291
| Docid:34714596 Page 34

_ FD-71

IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO

FILE No.

COMPLAINT FORM

Subject's Name and Aliases Name of Complainant

Address of Complainant

Address of Subject Telephone Number of Complainant
Character of Case } Date and Time Complaint Received

DESCRIPTION OF SUBJECT:

FACTS OF COMPLAINT: 2c, of (f */%

PIALZED. FILED. oe

Special Agent = ——™*S

| NW 90291
Deocid:34714596 Page 35

ls Mafavonee 36
wim eee

the ol pene
(Deten os 2) 5 "Baposttion of actual tC Coma ry ape Air Division
with the ante a ae eS rd age eat:

pro to the FBI po | of nforma dor of this i wt —
ee eetving this type vel, nor hae Headquarters vp dies

" VINTTED SiA S AIR FC
THE INEPE TOR. ae AL

fel DIS STRIC

| OFFICE OF © Pec

TIGATIONS 3] 2

| NW 90291. :
fe ier

Federal Burear of Investigation

‘United States Bepartment of Justice /

IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NO.

COMPLAINT FORM /

UNKNOWN (FLYING SAUCERS )
Subject's Name and Aliases

Address of Complainant
KE 6906

a f Subject Telephone Number of Complainant
SITE © 4 T1-10-54 10-31 Pit
Character of Case Date and Time Complaint Received

DESCRIPTION OF SUBJECT:

FACTS OF COMPLAINT: Complainant adfised that between 10-25 and 10-30 PM on this
date he saw pf vite very bright opiect

of his residence. He stated they resembled two stars following one another

but were not blinking and were traveling at a high rate of speed. He continued

they were traveling one behind the other in a southern direction(toward town) e

He related subsequentiy after observing them for approximately one minute they

didappared into a cloud and only one appeared"to come out of * the cloud and it

subsequently disappeared. Lt. Cenmender HENRY J. voor staff duty officer Pier

#91, yeif was furnished the above information and he eid@ he would notify ost

at Mc Chord Fiel@, ¢Mf¢/ SA R. E. Nelson, CIC, R #3 was also furnished the above
information. :

ACTION RECOMMENDED BY AGENT;

File in 105-0

Special Agent _

| NW 90291
| Docid:34714596 Page 37

«Eater ate! fe See er he a Ein Pe ere oe, oe Bed nd Le a Fie yeh Parc ee Oe eee See Sele re eee ae —.hLUmULLl Eat eee ; See eee ie
i ee Pa Pare Reece air gl ee ee DAL ST (ef fog, fe oe oer ee ee eae > #&#7+;xi-G Petes
; es ES Coe PE ee lege Ger g bff a & ae i yf AR ‘te Pe, Fa a rrrr—s—C=“ aes ee site
ewer ena i FE oe ee eae ena se ee nse Bah Cuee caine ee ee eee Pt et EG em ING aie
| “eee aaa Hee ae ne aie nmeeens oe (ents ot teenie) “EPs Scent ey ee ERE eee LEON Eel Rene ace Pea ae pa aaiie sone oe ee ee ee SUL SaeE ener Ba ee eather ames meget: =
erates ne Da ioe: 2 Sniand Wha teteagie ot ek ee Ee teravemicne as an ah ASSIS Higa Pe ea Rerum Saint eines Bae ote ea ees eo eine Heimer eras Oe ees Soar SNC Sue Nred ot iad eatee as ey eerie
Os en sie eR ate aga esa - ele eS eae s eae. ee es ee = Cir fe

pene ete iea PN iyi ae nt Pancha ec nne hier te ae et ee SG a ale ce tes ieee eae rah Ses peace Ei reee er coerte era aa ease Seite aes ee Peete Senora We seus cee \
| EEE ae senior ae De ee Sap tetas ea oe Gert ene enone TCR Pane ae pees foe eeopeae s os ee Shape: este Bibi cuca cen mea ee ee t
rr oo. ee ae 8 amnsr sds an my Le i oo
: eae Oa Rees Steietenee” foes eed a ee Se Roar ee S ek ee peer mmeneas gee oon aie eee Aes tation cay ee Eig wedeees gneconns SCE ce ESC eee 2
: USS Nice Neath Se arene anecere ens —_— oe ee SOs oe ae ag eerie ppeeesareee | Spe nie eo ee sonst ith vena Wan teh bres se arietie dina ects Brae rote cba hota pep sages Wea een Eu Re cies Bogie hnaverhian pane Pe earl? ei tir sig
fae 2 ee Paiva asap es epearpaeaawrces Se ae So SS a  . a
1 ee enn eee Ce io Sans Sp eaeres Poieponeiein one ieee seas preity cet aerette thee tee torent sav peseant ieee erence mien eee eae et rae B
Bee ee dont eae ene ..tdditi‘(‘i‘i‘,. Septet pee eum PERS hes ere Ree oee ge SE ee ied eee he

ie 8 stir i rae tes Pameue risa cine ne repay Bisse Scart ee Sie are ema ee cant SSeS AR reer ets deen eee ease a gitenieera terrace ee Se ete ty Bese acer ee
Ce lL =e | Srv Seeire ene see eMIOEN a neg BE SS See eee ieee Ce ee ee
een peg tees aay Ce ees es 4 vy! alter fa, Bae oe 4 Hee aearicr a sian ae ears sete rrr
TE SRE Agra ae 'RTwh) ORT ik AS speaieclieees tan melee ey He eee eels uO Sr at SES Soha Bee ee ee fi Seca eaeen eneaer ae Co RE ee REE aces.

% DEC ee aa de oe ee re SKS ‘Tet wei Ph Sart al ot i eee eUp Rite ies eee a epic apa Goaaae ete re pines Paes evar naieidat peioiree ete scien i beta ena tala Tu ieee ea a ger ea Goaleca ahha shee

Tee pee is series eee FT T Tyee i ee Oe ee pies toads sas atuate pee ae ie Se eae Sear Bauder an ga aaee ep ee Ge ee eee eee eitics Bie aeeeste ae ee a ae ee -
peace iat aatety ie 8 i a shecltinedtenttnae, ae i a UU Ner ott ceenen a es , oP uae i wollte ere iyemia asters eee ne Slreehe eae Cage eat partic emer ayy fiestas See egirtaceie aot peatetste ll eet ey re vest: Setar eo SPIE Aeesee) SEES ST 1 oo Siaaseer ear .
erence elo eed DO Sie eee a ,fog ee | Ce ree Ba oe ar UAE Sa Side eerie pandas cle Sener ar scene Eas apna oui gene aaa iw eante at Sesleri

| UE ES ea Sea Ure aap etek A Vee | &feose Log ee eee oe ee eee ree ee eee Ee aie ee Ese y she aes jee es eeaii@¢w enn! in Ue eo nae
ies oe a, Sarena Re ee as oOo, fn per F ee es Paice) LS tenes Maen eee rg ee eae Sern Geb Rae we gertieriey Au aeons peer eee ree oe fey CoO ee ee eee Bch
| Hoag ate ena sp Sierien aie Gr Oe RiG a ert fe a NS ef fF oi eae ay eeaie stl titar ae lee Sere Sree Ate San riereer eetarierides Rigrestrl st serene ET EN SEB raul hicnam ace aa ae rh. Ge, Oe TL CeaF gt SP EE RU a a
ere nea aed oe ee SS nae itcalaiat Ss OLN A See Sane era: ucnreee dia Perea ar peers aust ee ee unenee asian eerie ae si, tre. ioe oe . Be er KASEI Se rTPA Ss eee.

SEES eee ae Been ee ee es eee pss ee pois gui er oee ee ce cee naa . Bate’ LL. COLA lee ete eae aiearreaee eee eae te es
ee iar eee ieee meee Bs Bane Se epee ahs) NTA ee pid we se Sf uw hy ae eS pees eee ee OS oie Ears Ca pacar aco hmm -
Be ee merce ee CRE EES peo ere? wep byes a1) Was feats 1 Ce eee ee Roth ees ior Scie ieee Ee arb tg Ru eg esses: io

Lee a eA ees Sura, Siege Wage i zak Beene eoencee —rm f+ Shake Shel Val &. Sse pea Aes eee eee e Retna einer ee Se ene eee SOG SEAS PS ens Wana Gy fs ¢ cee sae cae

aR eae eet Di Gabe tenth meal Pane DOCH epee y arm Be Se] So ne merce ce oui oe ee a i eee ee er ees Ue eee eee oer 29. ek mat 4 Vi. SEAS ee

ee eateries creer Go etuget eo winaracees Ree) MONTH KN? ks yee S cco Ween Se ect eee Ee UE es I ease eC eas eh 4, | BLaT eee ee epee

ieee Sena eee ak et sano: Tigre  BAVMONT | eat he gy Peete SA ne nes Pie mcrae oe Dee anemic panera sate ie Caimane ere Ronin eaten es ee _te tr LLG Pah npemumetieacts - naeioelaen Steeme mars merien 3

Ea eee pecumier arias eee: Pagel oo BE <a | ecaalceni eter wens tna peererrectr EE he Ete Go sted arta tian fee. eee ar +4 1LS Cave Pe essed, iris Seas ee a ae : F
sie aa teat lis gee pote Sear Ps eed Guns enna © eats See ree age eee sae ee tn. hs 9 iw 6 & Js ten A desea keenest aaiaat une aety festa yiciaananiane ae a ees ears. te

Be a get er oe cea ESL eee pormeraiic: PCa Eee Poti ete es anaes PN feel Stee rele ie Avtvimna ta) Lv tg OU Ree age et ieee eee ce esis eae nae Soe ees Se a
Pec sac ae ete east Hoe Maer: apie Ee eee eisine cise Sabai eee pei Magee ora SeaaeeneeeT ae IRAN Veit ee Se eae Sc june eevee a ae eini ee Saaieoner dts niece Pur ta erates Seas Bee RIS ft ee
Es eee Ca eerie: SP nee ote, ar a Sh see, seme ge cues Beauv eee eee i oe ee ~~ Bppro he A SP a DR Ghee ester Sei emcee ese aac ene Supe ee Salresne peut ean oe: Sore nrea se ee eae re °
Becca ps anes ears eer 2 2 Uipmeumomse asin, Pomeisa teammate See? eee er, He iv ab a oe eer Pera e a iear fect Pog See ae? eee ae eh ee pga eee Ee eae ers er epee ae pol eae meneg =
Be ee Shel eae e ne Tse Se a ane ae Ee eae Yes anor’: | Ene .V ¢ a ee ean Rie nee ere SOBA tae eeu [oer ante ars wena su atinen ean birage a ou ener rhea ea ere ; oct
Guar eerearimeres peer y a sedate, lst ee | 1 Penh ; wo Vi ine pia ip taaeaes ieee ical jaictee eee erect dic ye Sa aaa ena Bae ieee ee ee eek Ra eae tame Fi a. bie pane beer hey eo
Seah ee ea idee pee ge sare ee Se me s ater. kh SS 4 seneiiat see east ecurace Pini cenbecet as tee oeatnsoes ta: ena sp iacstngee caine eure gees seaman dsanin ap See ee i weey, 4 Se ee J ER ee :
yee antes saeereniia le ee ee ‘ce ana seisct! <li cette apeemeien atc SE ae ee eae Gee ee 4 fie eae ee ea iocsiae smear fiat a if4 ef A eC | ee searumnanns ee ae 5
ie ie eens nate 46 ba Ch ee eee ea eu e ee  eaniy Soapeier tees gee ee: ean eerie enet oe ae Aanntit 4 ac - Ve gee ee as ee =

peep cee eco a eee ih ia Zee, cecil tinal ites aaa ee 2 coe chen sar sere Seta sae ee Bee ee an eee ea JSPR ec ae sonbe alt cia ae ees a0 er ke Ck arbeid | es eats. dee ee ene aide tomes zi ear
ee ee eee See ee pOSiea,, ‘Wa rere eevee ae a nee es See Cene Se pre a i Unid 6! Gotcteatian techy setae a eee sia He cin area a San ea wicter
estan anne oe ox peru eee ee we eae en Se ea se se ee os hear rea ei fea Cet Cae ee ee BEL i needs ae eae pee : oe heer Se.
eo hee se. Hie pawn ae eines g cca es Cee Fae ciate Pas ceetteesecor es ie bth te pea Ouse seactet ints Tina ages Peep eae pee an a arenes sci bathe ae ice am irene Sen ae ge Series Be
Berea ieee peice: Gaya peat te ee (ei Suan one tee ee ae Bateal 4 ving & Ei ies eterna ees Sos bles ee ainuee pans Set east: perie sen eae ew sea toum ie eo ete FE ROE panera We SUR aaaateee pecans am Ha
eee ene sais airatseniy vee Its anes Shee ee Sheets erat tease oe eee Babil- oe. Ove alate eid because poh igetgeiaen Pee ee se iacaneoeet yan Sinan Rect os ea aria Ss eaeee Sea Re etapa take oP cies os ‘eere cee i et ce !
Suaetioceenbiaas er raise pea Pa mat tear th Pee: RSteaae rane apa ee 9 | Foes He a Re oh sae Syee einer on cesre isa: Bree aerate: Lenehan ste s ponies Petrimant Slaps ieee seinen ees ih on ee, ' Som pie Shes oo an F
pecs Sent oe ete eaet ene fates at a oe Seen Gee ‘hm | PL Pe L. sebongcanae ea Sean aeee eeeeeaceenee Eu ee Beas ieee ae praehiacke Hee Sane ioleconencimnes eee Seeeore ae Te OC 5 Tt, — Scenes Cherian cee Sissy ns."
Bie ccue ees ees . TPrOnT po OMD, ae Siceniademe anes oreo ee ee ee ee Se ee Saige sets ae ith + OD ee, » 4 Pkt SECRET es (eens tesa sare Hee Beye = sie
peo eee Gee iret bs 4 a or Kat, dae cease eas Bioneers ee poner ee ee aes ee Ds am eee eee eee ee ‘Ow. ‘Th we eee gate coerce 8 Se ae eee er Per Stee ec
a pales Nea mertey Ee rence Ri ee ie ers ans eo or ee bee eae eee Geos * flow, OE arctan ne eaciit Perea ate Sey eae ae CS ate ae Voetracmesienes Se: ne
ie i Soe rh eran raenutnne a ate RO haan eens tan vrs sober Sienna eer ee eer Soria Neagle PRPs eect meee a |) =e : ee si uae et incostr cape tae eet ae Regrrase ELE SES, Sie era Gise ty tesaace ade Seca pene ica biter oo ;
Se eae Se iumiap teense ee ee aie fetes g aes Set meet emer sition arch tia Wee SR ha, ee a - iw Se May sper ai et al pote Beso paceman taare om a piaiiae ever ai harem ye Sate ere gavin te Rr teatie nee ees eure. | ee
ee ee ee eee oe erie ep eats ees He ee ‘en Fd, ' LOrm £ a ee ee Sete Rip ouch ae eee BE erties eee ee Doncruenipeke standin ees ee a ae Baers
ee Sees a eee ee ae Gee detfinit a a ree oa ee eee Bie es ee eee ae Soc Oe ae a ae ee peers eerie ame
Cs ore ae ape eae See” eae het na - bate th hall ae Ot Pie ee ae ca meee pad Sian rere aaa RMN nea eee saahetntony tance Sires att Sepa s aa: Scar pS eat Sue ete Hise eavTaa Piteiae ay ieee at it eo
Derren OER es one SG ¢ a no ¢ shades Ructene fend tall Deen ee Pte ee Ee Une rey: eae fea pe oe — Sees ee BO a eas ae Ce ee ea ma
doers tee ce e-Bay pra St eee ee es pea aes sees ieee ee eed Sete ace ee cee eit Pn eet ene eee pee aes Pe ae oe. dain Ae Se ue ee ite era
Pe ee ee eye eee Ee See as EPA icige a teva pee eee fea See A eee Se? eee eee? ee S| 8&5 Ge eS eee ee pied 1
De ee Ses fi (oo pe oe i: an on | @leyve’ pat rl eros
Pe Pe ee oO eae Rie ce ce ee eee eer ieee eee lb was © + etl f see eres Sua ras ian ecu ease atta atone eee Clee Ce asi ae ee eee i: rn
Sai at gh unread So bananas Manas piieasaite cc ine cer a ees te Lv Wes arauaeee Eten cee Zang see! Su Sepa at ceman epee ce ae ane ae pba ees ier ae ee si ronrg SHARE Eom aa TR eae te Pe catIN asus eae
Paced ce rcreet ere ect ee %O tne cos Caos owe cue Ge tmaard Sa sune yt Se es ee ee era Saipaer ae ee ee AE te ee St 5 wbinm Ad: e £orTr HG, dpc Sec Gascon atic Seer ht
Beever eine See _om wes 1 ii GO ° | ee Sri sinners te suas eeeteln Pee Sauer eS Sere ele eee Sees Esiayeere Seeraene [| the | te gee? ee Te Lee me ney ee erates oe ier ines
C oe oe Aisi ecet co o ee oe pee, ee . s Cee Pa bhatt 7 he eont OC’ ec 2 Pen
7 oes eae ey eee AOR Gn es Keer Peoria ee eee ete ficient mec Se jainie ae nee eee Sere 8 PAG ri at Ne lial Seeieiesat ial ates, eC ee ee aeeree ey icant i CEO arene SE 74 4 seis
ee ooo meena Epa ates ey EAR ede ee ee eee peace See eee im 11a, , Bre 7 ee is eae ieee once aus oo Org ieoteorn eS
SEE ered fee cece sa Ee eee ares parte me ent aan See Seis Ae ee. te my eb de wh eee fe. eines ket ts “Mayenne a ee iment a ee Pe eee dee eee LiMn cate ae:  eneraee
i es eo Se ee ee eee Spat eniee ore es pee eee he geal a a & ha (ore ¢& ‘oe oe en Ea Sateen ee ear eae area scrum tare iC eae ate ey dee Honea aren aie Sheet pee
eas See evecare gel ean Sporn Se a ey ee a5 De Wi Me Syren eet ares Se rae es Ppestee ety eas eS el ar reopen  hLi,e Te Peer Pier inteart:
ES SG Oe ese ee eee Spee auee: Gece ERrE? Paes ae. ay Y Bre 1 hd Od fee ase tliat SE erie a ene eae eee tana eae oa s Pesan cet aed ee eae fy Pee nals ae | oe ie of Ee ceca suet on et oo a 3
: es bt ga aera oe eC aee ee ent sac ou wh BEG Si ett oe ai ee Cl a ae mit 6th he eal Delis Doe aiane jena are
4 Pe dette saeetapag pate Cees ye. OK, ae Be ca teccatt ath oe ae SUE ae ag eercn, oe Atm Te | Ce. ee Bite fe ay
1 PSE Una eee es coe I gee Pesta nacage al Sc Eieere os eae Se Eee ee ee gO a, | an) | fim - a Se se ad
ee ee eereee ie ea Be EME EeD  Poncy spor ema acts ie aaieetiac Ruan aes erotica et ee nent iee) rie ataemesect a fe Perea crn baleen: 1c 6G) ee ieee ee erg reat sooge eene es Rea aa Fees
ee peace ee a pp ee er Pe eet SESS Ses CR ae ee Deeg Ue eee oe Ppa dal | Th a | A Shenae ebm eles any, serra tes ae enn see ae eee ey Oe see Fibs warden
eae ee Sarees Be ce oe eee ener res ae ee NE eta Dy eel ge ge pean as a % VES oo SE OE MG tee a ere ae ees Bene el ices ese eee oe LO Oba sea
:/ Ree eee ki neta Sip SS ne Ee Se U ara recat He aera alee Sie tae ae ie ial as. arta LL] SUB RaR EN acinar aaa (Hoke oat ae ire Sten CEL Sivan eee pee ene uti rar nse iiaaciee aren et a eas sedis
Bee co erase Seas spaautey eee a si ine ee ie ae Songees ea ene L.. 2 bh. ; 72S 4 ‘a Jel @ae Reig, Fepla mvincn cree rs eran Sh sets echt fo eee panera ean eat Ege Anes cies Ee iat cee Rye le Sn
a pees i CE ae ee eres ge Oe Sree cineca: peat: ee ae am * ee | €ne Mavi Be cas Pena I ns Cees Ae ee gfe eee ee epee ee uicees Se oo cee baa
aN see eee ee ee a ees ae by ae  EPeAD eC lo ape otal BOG sere oe eS Sy cere Cec es eee sores ee ee pe Siatee eagle ice cetiuar ce See
ee epee U Seec caste nc ee TA ena + ey tre eee meee e ner oe ee ee ee Sees eye et ae Bee ee ee loge:
SAR eee ee a : TW ela a: wi IIS ST ar rceeee ne ee a teesveipeese aria ciprinen ee ney taeas eo garncistis sae eee ee ear eit oe arene ee
Pee sees ee  DBaetew £LEGLiC _ reo fees heir ete ae Se eae ee aie ee i ee DME bain ee Herat hae
Se a eaacecaae poet. eee eres: nla aati pees ew aire Ste operas eg O os paper ae Ss ESS Ce tae oe ie eels GE Rat ree Aleit it See ee ae NR aa acing ae
Pe as MMO sae 4 EE ie Ss a ee EE ee eee ees ee plese DG Ses Be pone ie 2 eee ee A ae
“LSRSERS SES Beets eres oe eer Sores ae ara Fee at ae Bea eesti eS eee meee Me ea ehpeea paar esate ations renee peep tienen Eee ear teteerene Pe ne RE reine neen et: ME eee ar oe ee ee an aes
TAME Nth eaten piece Siempre Race ne Gy es cy cet aan ee eee triers teed! ees dea neees pens ee ee eee ects pee eeu ce at evegeaetieeey ee eee SE eae ese Eee 9 ae aie tas ae See ee ae agen eet
| RAMEN ear Ep ticke ogre to Bae ti ag aR Sra Eek SC Uae aa Se ener tees oe ae co Sore eee vetoes Rreee n orts at FORA ane nes ecar ere es ieee eens es era pen SUR Utley amen in BO erie
OA eel oe BEN es es oe erie eeASiSte One eee ee ie eee HES SE Ue as ee ee ee ee eee Ce Ge ee eee
Se Ds Se ea Sea eae es fee ue Sie ee ee ra eae ri Scenes pee eee Pe iris
eee Se re Dera iee ark tect Ena nee ihe ee oe ee Se ee eerie tetany tat soe menertnatens eee, ee Boe soar eR Se Hen Sica ies tea ieee ope ae as ees - =. SPs SAS
Be eee (are eee ie ce cannes ee. Cae es Sues tar clade eae ate: euieeey eatey re egea ee So SECM one ere pace ae Se a ee eit see
Pe een tetra eee sopeirene ay oe ae caper emer J eemanenaeas chemin res cafes nentn Hen gebe ccbaneer ee oe eee Sais el Berta Nese a ee coer priinne uae te earl pista ra briedipesatt iar ge
SU ae i i ae eee Boe eo eee ee eae e ee Dees ee ge De Sse omen tay ES SAG Oe ee
ee eee Se eal AS ES a SOE Sums Ee REE ad Benes eres oe ee Rea neta terrae elie Gey coneies re Sareea eet Be ee ee eer ees — pits Se,
‘As eee ee cee este apni crea ee ages eee ae ee ea a eee actin sine 0 pee eres de ae Rae teie atte fe ae plc ices sea Oe eat Remeber ci,
Peis nes aceeeueeee Seat ee ugar es Sefdue dusters ears Patni Saher ce Reena e fein oleic ean anily See aM a nee Bee EE Ie EET: ame Iw cee piss ig tiae goer ie ge Reais uteee teres fee eee eee epi nen cee oo seer
PO ee REARS agers eee Saale Pe Paphitis oe sae abaet Sots oe eee: eet eese Pe Sale eee PE Snese arietiee acai Simia eae eS RR ene ay iets A ee preety alte ei aman ee ae ein peeve Syeme ceric tts cag Sere renee: HERMES e
eee ee eee i ee So ee ecient ee Be ee SG ge SE Str ae ee eae
- HOG SBI ST tees aaa raat Treo eek ht ela at earner tae caret ee aati oe Satan enue oe ie nee oe Te ea te ars fp eon ee ae cenit fae nee eg depen aiee ae spare ee sa ae REA ah aes pee eats Saree ae pete Ses
Sera ask eet er ragian a Se eee Ei ieee ecaanae, eee a ae eee eee ieee ee aoe soins gee ECE eee Se eh Bom aune ie ean (ee eoeemeeas gE TCE eis SHiat teIoe Ce PGs ie Sas aac
| Beas ee eee nee ney pape cree, sprees be et: Beaders icp ee tiecim es aecaes (eae hi eneeeeea ee (egies eesbens: ere ees eos SN ae ee Marae gate rr eunanie ea eee ince Ge ee Rae reas etnies ee TEREST is Bary tice geet
ee cee a ticabree is eerie Fete He eee a ae Peers Se es aiaee a aia Lice eee oot seco Re OE eee Sees ahaaececaly ier Spee aie eee a ces ihe eee tas ae ee
Ben eed Siena yee eee Seer arr Sauraieeres as in: ae eet SS rsre lk Liveelat sie ee aie he ci meeet cae eos ES Ses sfuphotiemen rss ue era Sec apactedncus made eer ar eS Nir ae ee ace a cages ob ee a ae ie es
Dee eee ter ota Stan eee iat: eee Ae ee ae: Samer Poeneee Se acca Paaiiceed ee ee Bee eee eae as er Gs a ee ete
Ce NN ee Bee Pee ae cua eee ees eae fess: UA seein ads ee. ee fe eee ce anemeee eee ee Resi ooreee coccetc es ee ae Re eee ere Pe ee me oe aS eee seat
fe ee inet ee ae Bet 2 eee ae Oo sees en ee tae centre ce Boe isms AEE ES: sera creo 2 ae ie eine TAO a Ue eae ear JE ae Hee teen 1 ge acre Seams :
Le eee ae Bret tie bests ieee ear eo a ee See) Je gl ae ees fan See ihe aaa Bigigeensoe foley) AL SCR alu daa ah Sage eee Rohe ices pon Rar Pe eee Meee Siete Srna are Pea Bi gic eee Ve Sinampyanin i oe GE ana ae bias
AG HE ROS eee See antes es ee ena tien © ee eee Be ele eee eles Sea Bit Learner Bere emi on Lomea se neemne) peek Siete Ue e ie ea ae ee Ne Batt a ee ee re Gets eae S
Bee ere eee Ra eee oe oe ea: eeebeenesie ee Ge oes Seu ieucen: é oe Sree ory cimrctieatey SE ee a Beir epee Se eee Epo ae Beer Gees! et —_ 2 oe eG ae seen soca it Wg ee antares Sees
Ges eee ee ie ries a ees es Ser eee (yan PON ae Sy eevee Es ere ee eee ee eee fait ee. ee oo ae as iat % i ee es pete in
Skene So pocerciee etna ee oa i amen eh eon ae BRC ot See face Ss Hen eae canta ee es pete ete Ey A ite ga See Gad pee — ee ae tees nc ct, eee eet
pe Giese ee oe aes gee ee oy deus Speen een ner Dene Sa Genie Sa a ak ere pee ee eprdeta einen) - Cra Cees ert feces CL ne me le Dy Bee ee bahia alte aaa ane
cee es Gee era STR Bg Pees et eee ee sce AWE rey G ees eoperaene CE Jace dete a ees By Geer eras pre eee s os ie ee Eo ee ae pees

ee eee es ge eee pee ee ee Se ee eeu opie eras HO rea CES eee oe bi a ESOS RAE! & ‘INDEXED ee ee 2 a ea
Bou aS Seen oak SoS ee ee Liar eeeean See Ge ieee Steg epee Bop euecrs reas ene Seer Sahen sia leer ee ae So syigittas ae seen ie ea en —— “f i Ree? ate | Rat A, bel rae based Giihe eas i munis Eh 2 Se eeaette
ene poet piaictn scan a a eee aera iene aa Cae eee cies eee RS Nees earn es rae ee aioe Serer ee et ae eet (ea SE i enon: dems Se" see nentiield bene ee etait ae
Bann orci en Gee caine i ee ae, ee Re eta ceuroee Peed aa uh ra eee fete Caeeiaate Ta aie eau s pee secur ie 8) BES Lieb ' ee ee me Cee aa cee
Poe ee ek) | ee ee <3 pea ee: Sees ae Pee eae eels Uicid Geeta: ee He ee ee | Semuaizeoeteneos — Oe eee ee ae
ROR oer Ae en Berth. GP foe eee Cee oe serra ee oe ee Sie Seg | ecmial 17 Oe FILE ane e ewes | ee ae eel
Rt et eee ieee a a LS ee ues ie Sue Sy aera ea oe Sacer pee a Biase ees sO Deo ep eet Eee eee eee | SERIAL IZ! iets. is aie age atc bess ae en ol ae Bene Tee
| UU irre nae a eames ose pee, dese Eh vices ee ee ee one RU cue oun AON et ce eran ee us LL pe ee ee ee eeiiseierae
EER aa aia sean es ras herria salt eae Bay. alien micceese or ate UR rear Go cunomeriene ea aa re Gt an oe SEEN eee pra bes ened eae eee ste Hate es elnigant tance ‘Daa unre ee pote erate aad apie rts
sateen Ss ee eer ee SORE!” scetiere Been eey eee Coats anaes ees a he Se es cae earemue Peptic ea AL oO@ 4anr lin dy Foe ae RO ee eine ete
Be ea eS Bap eee fs er ae soe Fees pe) Clea ees eigen Soha ene eS ety Poses pees  PPIAE © mm ThE eas ee ener SS ae eee
REC Ge sue careke cee ede ea Be es Clear ae es ee eee. ee er See aa TAN reesei ieee ee TR POO fe. ee: US eee ee be tant eiiie Sen
SCSI eden eae eee ee ac een ens ceria faionetat ey gamer ae ee ge ca Sinaia a tna ea Ge peeiacaiinaaiees ogee) ester as ne Be nsec Po ae Seif eae 2
eae ereercr en ee ge ee ee eo as ai Se aes See eee bs eect ee ae eee ee rie ee a
: soresaig tales ere, Gi ea oe Je lees ieee ane ea GAP cea ne SyG eee Eevee sn ang th Eonar caieecrsene EO cries eee ee ee ae pareebee ct nee Meare oe Pao eee
Caen i ee F sxcca eee Gee ee eee oe pore ie a Pood hes Pe ee Doe Um cia) Gace ere ee EE op — NG ne ea ees Pees
eee a ee ae ee ea ap 2 er ee ary tee es ee Pe ee ee eee pe nat Pe eens eae
ee ae ee Sa el Pe ee a hh Gee aroneciter efter ee: (at Yeates — en. e eae abn Ge es eee i ae Oe ee hilar cece a a eae gats
Riese hue ee “at eee fo ie SE ee a gs sso REY O Ss os te eer et ee ge ee Eras Gave UP CAE ot SP”, aan eee eee ep ee
Re eae ieee oo | Lee SER SS reer edo Ele on. eer ok aeRO y CE gee a8 fae ae abt ey Stee, ot fee ay Aiea re onan cean er  saeheoromehornararag Sco ane eee eer ey IRS Gs eietaet Eee eie sure Se Soe
po ee ie ee ae eae TT er Ae ce os 40 oe Oa ne Pe ple Sa Ee aoe
se guns i See ee ae Bij oe sy OS ao eds ee as weer Gi ae eo rc lS Bee AS? Ae ee pega nee
2 AS aaa en eee Pea Sea ceerapeoen Peps ore unis ee 0 ant an e ‘ee a AO eS a ce aS ree eel #e ies gue ees ae: Meee enn hae sevcsasstctsieninennialeanca annepeion SR a i renctanine sis
panes estes ase ey US ae OSCE Nene e cee twea nies pe Slane eae Sete ee shierrsecapantern ivan eects, © ae ieee’ cet Sa ee eee Sener ‘SSREP eGR man rer eee cre ee Di re a Leeimepiinnen? a Etna ees
Ponca is coe iow sue amen iy Sees Same eee eee: es ve Se eae ea eeu pete ae per seeceey "fi eee tere SES ay Ieee ARG Sune Ec Ro rear e cme me Peeps oicoenne RRM en ees cece ten Si ae aes
pibecesictsend tie De ee ee Unie aceite gee A ee iS a Oi a as ieee eect eee tes eet ie eee iitenae’ ahh eran aie reer eset Shaan eer! ne ee arian Rees Hi SSN silicates aa ltt qeiage ne namneves, eirercarree cies
: Rage ies ree ae eee BED ian oe eae a ee aici aes a Ae he gee oo ee oe es anes ue Rote! aoe Remeron eee ASR utes ener tine ee etre oea is: ae Sia giarditabenidsare sets * pripeeiou te ie actos rites mae
[Pereeeree its cree scitccinaee ate tere LS aye rag se ee Brenig oct ee eee orate ae pclae ae pote cope hea Sr nt Purves peta ee oe aera Ent oe ear cea Sritneranr eset fio see Sievert st - : S ey Thatta) euudiseeaes sien ayente te
pai ip eesen  at rs Sesame eee emer eh ure atecgmn ts Ee ee eit kee Oe a” th a eee eee nine Teeter ROA espe ies Here ee peed ee ee SUS evachiey dain bates pubescens ae, [ ee pee ON SR ee eee
: BAe est get eat ages eee ES Ee Se LT ete RP eee eee Sone ee ees Soe aS er ee ee ses = a ; sya Sicneapgeers. Cane pi ima aes:
Pee ee ee eee We ame ee ee At eee aU ie eas : : sey nage ch B08 es Seren Agee Soe
cr... lt aoe Ce ei se oe Se sisimcnastieras . - iS i. ae : ne ne ott frstdaeargertret
a  —COCUcr—“OCO tnd d RS es
; Gee gue eae gear oo be poisasaaes eae is - i = 3 mt eek Ee
eee aaa ee ee aoe See ENE aammniht Ps : a6 Ce: sepetieee canta
: ee ee ee ee ; im - ; : vo Sollee Ss eee

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Men

TO 3=:_—s SAC, SEATTLE (62- pate: 6/1/56,

a

randum ¢ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

a
FROM : SA LEENT W. PARKHURST , AH

AUGER SEEN OVER KENNES

SUBJECT: F|

Sgt. GORDON RICHARDSON, Kennewigk, Washington Police Hepantaent
advised/that for several years he has been very interested in flying saucers and has
read everything available concerning this topic. GORDON advised that he has some
infomationwhich he considers to be of utmost importance to the def»nse of the U.S,
concerning a flying space ship wiich he observed over Kenrewick, Washingtm about a
year ago. RICH RDSON stited that he had never told anyone about this matter and had
not discussed it with other officers of the police ane because they "never
pay any attention to what he says", GORDON prefaced his remarks by stating that he
realizes his informatim sounds like 2 "nut complaint” am assures the writer that
this is not so.

. RICHARDSON stated that the thing he saw has bem weighing very heavily
on his mind and he believes the informtion should be passed on to the Air Force or
other interested Defense Agency.

RICHARDSON stated that about a year ago he was on night shift and was
in the vicinity of lst an‘ Washington, Kennewick at about 10 plm. wham he observed
a large, shining, metal ball about 30! in diameter swoosh in from the West at :
rather low altitude--only 200 or 300 feet in the air or less. The ball was travelling
at a high rate of spped and when it got abait three blocks east of Jashington Street
it came to a complete stop, RICHARDSON ststed the the ball had left a tail of
fire until it stopped and then emitted no fire or snoke. RICHARDSON described the
ball as perfectly soherical and made of shiny metal. He stated that apparently
the ball had at least two different kinds of motors to propel it, because when it
was standing still he could hear the "chug chug" of the engine sound ing like a
tractor engine and apparently an interral commstion engine. The ball stood still
several minutes »nd then took off with a speed so great that it disappeared from
Sight in @ mtter of seconis, HICHARDSON stated thet ebviously some different tyre
of engine was utilized im flight sich as a jet mw gine because of the speed with
which the ball left. RICHARDSON noted no fire or smoke on leaving.

RICHARDSON stated tmt the most disturbing thing to him is that apparently
the builders of the ball mastered the pull of gravity. He stated th:t this fact
puts this country in a poor position defensively as the ball obviously either came
from Russia or some outerspace planet in which case the Russians might get hold of
it first, RICHARDSON noted that the ball was flying too low for radar detection
and too fast for intercefption by any known US oe ey RICHARDSON commented that
the U.S, does not have this ball or they would not be producing winged aircraft,
jet planes, nikes, etc, RICHARDSON stated that he theorizes that whoever biilt
the ball is using the principle of likes attract and positives repel to defy
gravity and tmt the ship is flying on electron peams or.some other ratur aL f?
;henomena such as ligrt waves. He stated he never saw the bald | Aeain .: ‘AE
alvised cther persons other than the FBI, Heala@ stated. hate E/
any eelse seeing the ball but commented that due to his-trai mit

led o eee ©! /

NW 90291
Docld:34714596 Page 39

He Re er eh ie its tn

! NW 90291
) Docld:34714596 Page 40

ee | : Pn ara Avenue
eo June 12, 1956

Colonel Spencer W, Raynor, USAF
District Commander

20th District, OSI Me
McChord Air Foree Base, Washingto

Dear Sir:

The following information was furnished to Special Agent
Clement We Parkhurst, resident agent, Richland, Washington, on June a, 1956:

*Sergeant Gordon Richardson, Kennewick, Washington Police
Department, advised that for Severs). yetre he hes been very interested in
flying saucers and has read everything available concerning this topic,
Gerdon advised that he has some information which he considers to be of
utmost importance to the defense of the United States songerning a flying
space ship which he observed over Kennewick, Washingtor hen’ & year ago.
Richardson stated that he had never told anyone about thie matter and hed
not discussed it with other officers of the police department because they
“never pay any attention to what he says". Gordon prefaced his remarks
by stating that he realizes his information sounds like a "nut complaint"
but assures the writer that this is not so.

Richardson stated that the thing he saw has been weighing very
heavily on hie mind and he believes the inforuation should be passed on to
the Air Foree or other interested Defense Agency.

Richardson stated that about +cat tee te es oe ha shift
and was in the vicinity of lst and Washington, Kennewick, at about 10 PM
when he observed a large, shining, metal ball about 30! in diameter swoosh
or less, The ball was traveling at 4 high rate of speed and when it got
about three blocks east of Washington Street it came to a complete stop,
Richardson stated that the ball had left a trail of fire until it stopped
and then emitted no fire or smoke, Richardson described the ball as per-

fectly spherical and made of shiny metal. He stated that apparently the
ball had at least two different kinds of motors to propel it, because when
it was standing still he could hear the "chug chug" of the engine sounding

fot - GUYS oy -

| NW 90291
; Docid:34714596 Page 41

TO: Colonel a Barner, “USAF :
District Comanier, OSI

Ret Unidentified Flying Objects Date: June 12, 1956

ball steed still several minutes and then took off with a speed so great
that it disappeared from sight in a matter of seconds, Richardson stated
that obviously some different type of engine was utilized in flight such
as a jet engine because of the speed with which the ball left. Richardson
noted no fire or smoke on leaving.

Richardson stated that the most disturbing thing to him is that
apparently the builders of the ball have mastered the pull of gravity. He
stated that this fact puts this country in a poor position defensively
as the ball obviously either came from Russia or some “7 planet
in which case the Russians might get hold of it first, Richardson noted that
the ball was flying too low for radar detection and too fast for intereeption
by any known United States device. Richardson commented that the United
States does not have this ball or they would not be producing winged air-
craft, jet planes, nikes, etc, Richardson stated that he theorizes that
whoever built the ball is using the principle of likes attract and positives
repel to defy gravity and that the ship is flying on electron beams or some
other natural phenomena such as light waves. He stated he never saw the
ball again and has not advised other persons other than the FBI. He also
stated that he did not hear of anyone else seeing the ball but commented that
due to his training he is a skilled observer.

The above is for your information and no +s ovetiplin is being
made by this office. There is no objection by this office to your investi-
gation of this matter and your interview of Sergeant Gordon Richardson.

Very truly yours,

R. D, Auerbach
Special Agent in Charge

NW 90291

SUBJECT:

- ROBERT E. PRINGLE,

S sAc, Serre ee eo So ’ _. :

NEAR CAPE DISAPPOINTMENT - 9-28-56

At 4:30 PM this date the duty offices U. S. Coast Guard
called stating that he had advised this office on 9-28-56 of
unidentified objects near Cape Disappointment. He stated that
it had been determined that this was a "Mark Six, Aircraft Flare." |
He advised that others had been reported at Willapa, Point Granville
and Neah Bay. He advised that all of these with the exception of
Neah Bay had been destroyed by the demolition squad and that those
at Neah Bay would be destroyed on Monday. He advised that a _
search was being made of the coast for any more of these objects
due to the fact that so many had been reported,

ut Fi Fie ae | 7 aT To
TPORMATION CONTA is
a fA he oe iad le bad

Docid:34714596 Page 42

1015 Second Avenue
3 ai po omer

SES oe re re ery

zur by District, OST
ord Air Force Base, Washington

Re: Unidentified Flying Objects
Dear Sir:

On June 12, 1956, a letter was directed to your office
reportin mee | furn _ by Sgt. Gordon Richardson,

, ate nt, @lative to his sighting
. Richardson has contacted
gen La , Washington on a@ number
6 since his original reporting’ of this incident and has
; stated that he is most anxious to talk to a representative of the
i Air Force concerning his observations of this unidentified flying
object. Sgt. Richardson state t he had some new in tion —
which apparently is not a new observation, but some theories on
his previous hei heirs AR ich he desires to pass on to the
7 appropriate ; tative of the Air Fo Sgt. Richard

our Senior g vor ne
of time

has been advised that or iginal information was turne

your office and that his subasqnent contacts will also be

furnished to you for your inf ition. This matter was discussed
it a1 ack of your office on October 9, 1956 -_—

he suggested that this letter be forwarded.

: Sincerely yours,

\e Addressee es Le
Seattle (100-18945) i
aD: BMP ys
‘ 3) ee | } Ze

i

0-89 ¢5- bh

“NW 90291
Docid:34714596 Page 43

COMPLAINT FORM
FD-71 :
(9-29-54) ae a ee

NOTE: HANDPRINT NAMES LEGIBLY; HANDWRITING SATISFACTORY FOR REMAINDER
ADDRESS OF SUBJECT CHARACTER OF CASE

| Miscellaneous —

= SUBUECT"S NAME AND ALIASES

- SPACE. SHIPS

DATE AND TIME
COMPLAINT : cca

Jue

ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER
OF COMPLAINANT

Elliot Hotel, 105% Pike St.
Seattle, Washington

| COMPLAINANT

ALBERT CRESSEY

2:10 PM

SEX AGE HEIGHT

[J mate

EYES

OTHER DATA

BIRTH DATE

| BIRTHPLACE

COMPLEXION | SCARS AND MARKS

SUBUECT'S DESCRIPTION

“FACTS OF COMPLAINT

MR. ALBERT CRESSYE, telephoned that while fishing on Alaska Way, near . the
- Union O11 Company Docks yesterday, 11-5-57, he observed what appeared to be a disk
in the air, as he looked out west over the water. He stated another unknown man
came up with a pair of glasses (binoculars) and stated that he thought he saw some-
thing, but that he was partially blind. MR. CRESSB+ states he tookd the plasses
and that he saw one large object like a big disk and that he saw six other ee
smaller objects fly away from the big disk. He is positive that he saw this happen. |
He could not furnish the name of anyone else that might have seen the same —
He states he realizes that he should have called yesterday. =

ACTION RECOMMENDED
Index and file

KE. Brekke

SPECIAL AGENT

| Nw 90291

} Docld:34714596 Page 44

| NW 90291
| Docid:34714596 Page 45

Colonel Spencer + here

(1015 Second Avenue
Seattle 4, Washington
- November 15, 1957

District Commander . :
20th District —
Office of Special Investigations | :

United States Air Force

MeChord Air Force —_— Washington

Dear Sir:

On November 6, 1957 a Mr. Albert Cressye eee 7

this office and advised that while fishing in Puget Sound
near Alaskan Way and near the Union 011 Company docks on

November 5, 1957 he observed what appeared to be a disc in :

the air as he Looked out west over the water. He stated
another unknown man had a pair of binoculars and that he
looked through the he bineeuiens and thought he saw one et

chett, Siuiiar 0 6 Bis tines fee Six okner Suns Syieene —

flying away from the big He was positive that he —
saw this happen but could not furnish the names of —
éise that might have seen the same object. 2

hte is being paeced on to your office tor Anforma- og

tion and any disposition you may see fit. No inquiry is.
being made by this office.

Very truly a,

aes

Se CONTA TIRE, g: on
Betty on t- Special igene hs Charge

1 - Addressee
1 - Seattle (1000-18945)
LAD: jej :

100 -189¢S* GF

Tice aL oat eee emcee nee etry: . i t ri

| NW 90291
} Docld:34714596 Page 48

ee
Seattle 4, Was tnatee

Mr. Alvin Ae Witeox
— es Hae -

onan to pong of of pial

weshingt States Air ee hei

is spetettinas.

4 - Addressee

OSts as AFB (ines. 2)

sori
e
eae
ie
2

Sats 4
S

a8

Nt cf oo ,,mlmlrmUmts*si—‘i‘i‘CSS

Bee Se ee rer rmen eine AR aOUE gene ere coma pe ee es os ee oe Ce: ee a ee a ee ee Se ee es
Po ee a rr——“—*~™r——OSOSOOCSC ee oo Se ee oe ee ee — eee oe ee
Bee eine ean cua ar aie Ge tia Set sienna Creer ae epee Caen, Iaeres Dua meme ae eee a Gag a umm ae MTG ea tras a tery ra eaters anon et tere islet ee eS Ba et ae ae eae eee ere rm ae rg ee Pye Ue CMe Mee, (eee ears
| eae ee ae Rees vemeen tee Eee ary ees Gree eure Ten ee ene e en  cute re onc rie aera ae oe Se ee eee ee eee TS Se eRe a ee oe Soe eae tines Oi ee les eee
| Eee era ca eet Se ee ee See eee ree ees eer eee ae Bee age a eg ar ea ey Ae ete ee es ee ee ease cre es eee ae
Be nr Se TS a ear ee eS ea ace eee Sere Se oe Recerca Yeates eiabeeniee See peicnena rete mani cei orient a ee asters Ieee eee ice epee ee gpie emeceeg ae See Scie arrears Satria tn eee ig eno eee irre cee salves ae foe ietieteess ee
ee pr ree ee ee Oe ee eee ee a Be ee ie eeu usaie meee Stir ee
be _ STANDARD FORM NO.64 00 py ee ee ee gy, CU ee oo
| SSS ete eee ri ene rane re ee ace EU eer Rua ener aN «cyte ama Magan ce en ur are ue er eur cy cme ter ean Riera tatar Gui igh ctu ee via ne? alent ime ae eR VER ee Sunt ur ese eee a eee ee Ree CE RGHRG cin Rene ger Raine eM ane a Se corte
| SUES tea eee eee eee ee Ae area ap mre TTR N Comin ace {iat Raed Wud sence ete dn Wn Si Gl aaa cena o ea alge hi sine et arbi ar (sit AcE nae ten ier scaMiet: Siam Ph nny eal a LE seater ee Le een aR cn eles eae yp ERE PCR GR ee Stacie ene CRM eee Ameer
| eee ee a A ee ee ae RO ere a et ee ete ane eee ere eee eer Cece rian ee eee incr cut aaa ee ames
Pes ti peta ranean tha Senta een aiens Reieie cane ies sel HEU elias Me Gy uC an tena ein ae Hien eae Soe Gh Ce ee Ge a ees Pole un ernen ss anun sy aati cee ae Sipe Beye a pe eg tee eet See emcees es ioe ia Ie eee
ee ee ae et ee es a OE ee ee Seas a ees sua eee ee rete es orn eaien ae pe niGetie nue rsa smart aeghce Mmeeeeat Glare bee Gaon eee ise eles ee Pienaar aa erases einer er sa tee cue oe Parner
| eee ame eee acinar "Ninna ened een ogee aot fis nese ert es ene ia yur Gaunmaliy femur se ccen pe eal ueretd mel nha teeal sbi punt intel ia aettig Soe un tana tania Nt rai haya oregano sites teenie abet ees ed urna scree eee cra alc peepee nc een arora ce cee eve ee ata
Poe ey re a ae Gee ae oe a eee ea ae eee FRO oe i eae ee ee a eee
eee 4 oo ieee ae 4 PF ee igual I ea ae, ee oe pe
a Se ego Sa a hal & = PRS GS LPAI Sa STS SF AAA, re) CU Th TKRTT I TOCTT UCT ATT CC UT rT iF Tey TD A NA De
ee ee ee Pe eee a a ee a eee i A ae ef ad af oe ee ee eee eae. ae: ee ey Pah DPOF he wR OTN if ea SPE ec ee SS aie en easy
, eae Sele ceiearere te, a Be By fot, Ff W Ot, Fe £A ae LAS EE AS A, 2 Oo ates, Pp EP INE ET OPUS PLA BO AVY CRIN IMVL EIN Ll A se ieee nea potas
er ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee Me el ae ee ee en ee ee eee eee ne eee ec ee ee a ee pede eee cee rk) Ce eee
ee een Ce Cee ee Ce eee
EEE ese a coer race learnt eta) aan a bei SD irae nah iar pO E Eee i og ean i Ur Lis rah ee og eg fae Jol aN Rae IRE ee eine eee oi ewan tea Nee ee ieee NE aT cae Se er nee a eee ee et IS me
| Rieter coe ee Cepeda ates Mee eee aera toea sara ernt heir ani et waa ean Perry a span cme era hee re ean ee Cer cae mat ce ee senna nn Ta ae aaa eet nure ere ER a 1 Ser aera Ee ep tena er ano nL nee esis int
PAGS eRe) Ri ay Dor eens aie co tees ee edad kes iy ee egy EGG Se tee a DUS e i a Oe inn ine CASE nM ome er lui la me nue oeas Watens an ciieenerinn uumey cca tae EE RE Ae EES EE ee Ee ee ec etal Tee Aa
LO PELE GORE pe oe ena es fe ane taageinntacan a aan trenen eae Gea ain nie eG a Be cee ie: ae ee ee SOE EL ie Schecter ine ota tie fe EC ASipece ee ep A eo eg tee eee ag Ce pT ee Be me TT oF
Pe ce arutiie ioe siag 2 nee n eh aah mi siemens atin nett Ate rues Relay ean name ser AORN Sera. eer eae Chet od ie ene Site toe es, se REG ree Bee RC uh seen aici decree cea ara iy Dali ee at Pee Rig is ig ee Ia se eGe nis i oh hak ha ae ee
che ee Sans es Bee es eam rien niehy ence even Gn a) tee retias oe UGS ei ae FPR Gg aA STE AS SS AEN GSE Ge reece eC re tea Be ee ae Sa
Pes ic bere ieihr cise ee iia ace ietis adh teu me al Aci a CnC ea iy be ni ate RR VR Mbrcuic ut UROL CARTES Ecte Ste alee ACM ann iM Se Ee ine err ane ee CREB ee eer en eraTats RUSE eR etoile Aha Sensitive eisai Men el eee Leela a bier ecg! iis Aen
Be ee ee EES Css PGES Oh pier eeert eae a on pos eee i el oes ae Seeeecaat Cee, per penne hea ve pttran er EEE Re eee opie emt enter age eres Gus iuincee Pain ao eg aaa a Sing rece e Dea eeeyrer eee eerie Ri ee | btotvaureo
| Daina sree aapaesecrre oe eee peepee a amebiasis net aen RRS ea SU RY SS Alig UTS oc ire eee a cSIeN CS eUeUREa ee ae rare See teens Behe ae ARE a iia RE POR Se heed et rere iene ane eres eararn wr ae nce ce eet ane mace ee cnc ne ects
| ee eetceese eae eer ere ers Ste en aT gu, HUES cmon 4 La ag eee Picteetesaehe ANT SU ok COROT os OMS ea ea ee ng cineca eee oes eo ee ea ne ern BREE, oa hc ap STO fat Cat Ay rk gh” EU eee ee ave er oe eu eons ra he ence ie ea pee a
fic UR ese een ee oy, SAO OAT Te eee te a ee ee ee eae Sy Be eee ae ae a ee po cE Ea Se ree et ee
eS ROSES aig nee aie te MDa Ne , wGAL Lis ae, vied acti oN sae ee SO eg ere ene ga me fet | Se ee feureres
bi es ee Be ee RO ee pes  ,rrr——C—“EECOC”*#OCOit(*C”#CN enter ute
Beceem amie gene agers ae yee ean tea Deore MAL yy ote SAL MeO ae ee age rt a eee eee ee eer ey EL
Roce! ee eee ee ee ee Sea a a ee ee eee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee eee
ances eaten ee nae oe cet ree ho eeate are eo Cepia esr ue acai ne Cine oan ca ees ALAA ce alts nee enn aed Namie ey el oni mel ora Nia er cain Nant choir any cee ic Meee Mana shoei ee eee ee eee
Be ee eae Eiipced we leeae veer Rau arama Uae ey et aigaia lis otjuns aacenterOachenee antes eee = Soe ech e utara, eerie teh Part otro Soeot eter ayers INRA e pa Sincere Aba CP aia gence ta tiara ace easy mee eee AP ieee ea ae! evap ulema nl atten eRe rane ia ieee ieee Bega. ie eet :
eres eC Bae eee eae ee re eee eee rere ae eee ee gee ee eae era ee Oe Set eae
Beira a ae so ee ee ee ee ee prem aes
Ps eT a cae a A RN I ee ee ee ee ihe PE 8 ne eR te et aie ms
ee ee ee : ee ee
PE ee U B} ECT Be tae Yt Re SA UG: vite Pad et eee MONTES NE ae Se Eg a ieeneeany ." ; 5 { el see ten ya ed caer eta pe ce eae : 3
gee am ee acca Ee yA 8 sh Sr ey a Tee ea as at oan Yee a Weremrlic ie. RESUS gpninggee conic Sea ae ore en is Seiee thre fait wEED Lge Zico onsen pabetepe aaa eetcue he einer cpa Ge ce er eee eet ate Patra
Br tireicnn om tyr Sgeetey aoe anlle aioe isk = A HAR LLOON , | Ga [$250 Fe a ae ian gp Ree opener taut cies ar Ch : wR epee ital ie Ac SSMS eM sant eats fale nee ne cea ota ee :
pe geet O82 es OE 12/1/58, Mrs. BGs ‘THA HARRISON, 28 Le MOOTS SLres 9 Pel. uke MENaAM, | ‘ASNINneton |
Seee Sige ee ee ee aes ut Signe Mpa see SEP ss ee igene Sigt eei Cae Ege kg yg ee Regs eee rege ie ee fe ees Ts age ee ey ee 7 =
See - @pp Ca lou at the © : ame Let beat! RUA. and e ‘2 Vist 0 oe | had B@eCeLVe a a. Le i Oe o£) rom a ietere
eoticaaan ss 4 a - Seenerere er era Sci gan, # gansta EMO aRERS pn Sage poate. carmen emma, cer pe eae eat teins, BOR Bee ree Serene eee eae S Bieegire ae cube peat ornare hia eee ee | eid aes “n i oy oy ous ay ie, MeeeeeeD, Soe ne Peeenemertnet ae
ee eens inaraan ; Ji soeGo Vi r who Was interested 1 _hewspaper reports ~ mao TSe SERRE MRR :
Bus nce a ate ALY had spotted a second | LLVILnNe Saucer Ver xm Lline Deals AL e letter AOE 2 ER ee ed
Bega a) SP RE Ree Ri eee a ree una eta pho! MMe ae oo nyc i arsiamee acinyiiiriansy fet pel So senigtae iti ae eis MAG ee ec es ae 4 see pte eae eaten mine ecient oa ae ete as teenie (ang geen ics a mere a ase nee ee Heche Gear rent aed een aee caste e
aeaers seed ee «ls sig agape a a ae a eae - Se aee ae Be eee BPs ae at 3 he eo 2 am ee a Me See a 9 ee “OA me on Eee Oe See gee areas a eel priatasecaee | ceeapetart eet ae a ie, © mere 2
| ¥eturn address Dr. and Mrs. RICHARD BUCHLI, DVM, 6621 E1 Monte Drigive, as Clty 15...
Poe eB ee HA LSON. O6Xp. e-e se , baat On 4e Occasion O21. . epee ee TES dec ae , = GIN? Oe eh DAV Ane Sau Beet ghee
ane Ss eer she ~ had furnished details to Mr, - HOOVER who had renli. ed that he was fu mn VAN ER
| Ree ee fr Miche” aaa Navies Riise: Ga re SSI ee ee eevee Sa Ha SS Cee Bae Soe ar reat Ge ere SS) a oe eee at 1
Peps sce et a Spat ee = ate eth eee = : Loe meres Ren ao ETE Se bene el Sie eee ania yee see ave DMS ere cratered ee So me ER Ste aces eee eS Nl Siem Ee Es eee sed Wanita ©
_ Naat eae ee nae cs acigstissacl tae peers ae a at sak 4 Ey EEE Pi eee ea” 9 Rtn nin uence, + am se Ee Bees aig SOO nae eae eae es
Bere iecee si meine tp 2 als Hed, = eee i = : ay erin ieee gE aces Te eee ger Fo ERE Ms iE ge gta tar Ute te ure Onin oi as nein Peer ace eg ae
Bia Mont ee tae ae, aril ie = tee ; : i wes 1S CUES Bie ei arin eats ater alba ate Siew 7) Out ae elect ty ntact cre ee a RO MM Re ny ERE a cee anther or men ieee Soom li ar a ee bemmumien. ict ed ot me
ea iae se rib nega apie nip nag nae see : i at rede oral Feeney iti eect pic ern es cece tame a eae nek en EC sucaes deranRe tt as mae. ete ie Cee en es ae |
Beets ti ep pee) hana: ae ee 2 : ; E Fee a er ae er a eee Oe Te eee ot ret CTE eta | SERIAL St gl OE” IRE ea OCR Sane og! Be nora acer eo rt eee eS
Bir Sicianteraey eh pt Geena AT Rage ee caren : arti ! a Ree. de cee eee ere ore eae eee Sem ete een tena tra cea << eee en en eee tt pices ee Se) Sato
| SEE ee a oa ae el cage gett is Seon aay beaten Es = Seite beens 3 Wisse ura! Saris, meer r SO heated soe Thayer oe ey ae epee cha cen sco Tamera naeiht feta sie oie p oe cnet eae ons ee ata remem apn To
ee PE OS i Sensis Ee rahi ipirae ae deat CO ee nati ag lire: URED (ac Al BEATE pate et ee tres teeres) TReer ee sgeat ee eee Speirs
Rs eee ATT pele ar ame ees cere eee ica te, ate OP” a he emer ee eee
Beet Paget ay + ae a eer er MeL on oo.) sak Olas Rates rR ie es a BG is Se NG ae aeit cc cone penneipeR il i bases eae eee tots ei
; yee EET A rem Os a as ee = ; . sical) Paenue | eee ia I CEE OVE JT sities (gue ot te STM ERPs sar Ge ae iene ee ees MO Reet iene elie
i oe = : l : ‘ Se kh aS ee ta Tre mai A eae i Rica aie tetiey. tatiae nie catid | port ulial toes simans tales Mant seer seria oe SPUN SN stl yyat ee eC RE ae eae ee cp abtop ete
_ Sie ator cere . ssstlad " I sified es antea Se ane, si ieentonhtne Sage es Lee ec ae SN eet tee Osan nce NE PETES net ee ri oieaer nation lise a ietae hu et Solonseer ae teeneiie eu nee Ug ne ere Gare mre ance ES ont ee: 2
) Docid:34714596 Page 49 : eo a

STANDARD FORM NO. 64 oo Bs ae ee 8 oe

: . Office Memorandum - "UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ,

To. : = 8H, Seattle (62-0) i ; a . _. bate: 4/20/39

SUBJECT: Unidentified Flyi a
Washing ven.

3915) télophenteally ec Ahat en the predating vente. she and feur efher
neighbers ebserved an unidentified flying ebject ever the Whidbey Island area. She |
went en te say that she persenally leeked at this ebject fer seme 40 minutes with
bineculars and that it was ne figment ef her imagination, She related that she did
net want any publicity abeut this but that she felt it her duty te repert as ene ef
her relatives had seen such a thing dewn on California and the autherities had been ©
unhappy because he was late in Yrepotiing it. Mrs Withrew was advised that her
_infermation would be made aval lable te the United States Air Ferce whe weuld

centact her if necessary, | SOO - Ad Pfs 23

On 4/20 59 this infermatien was furnished te Lt DeLeon Wilsen, Prevest_
Marshal at Paine AFB whe advised that the Air Ferce is intetes |
weuld centact Mrs WITHROW and ethers observers in erder te ¢
legical explanation fer such,

pve gt
sara ee | “

| NW 90291
4 Docid:34714596 Page 50

STANDARD FORM NO, 64

Office Memorandum , UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : SAC, SEATTLE 7 DATE July 17,1959

| FROM : SA JAMES H, SANDUSKY / of, y

ALM yi A

SUBJECT: INFO RE STRANGE FLYING OBJEC

On instant date, MRS. RUTH LINHOFF, 0 Mercer Way, Mercer Island, Wne,
advised that on July 7, 1959 wh p wadbing on 8 steeten of beach in the
vicinity of LA PUSH, Wne, she observed a man dressed in neat sun tans
walking on the beach sane distance away. This man appeared to be carrying
a quantity of rope hung in loops from his arme LINHOFF advised that she
was aware of a series of brilliaht flashes which she supposes emnated from { . .%
the sky. Shortly after noticing the flashes, MRS Linhoff noted a parachute
floating in from over the ocean and it appeared that the man on the beach
had in some manner attached his rope to ite ‘The complainant stated that
just beforimoticing the chute she heard a swishing like blast reminiscent
of the noise made by fourth of July sky rockets. |

The man was described as white, male, large (over 6") strong features,
‘ about 30 yrse : a

JUL 171 1966

FBi - SRATT

| NW 90291
§ Doclhd:34714596 Pade 51

So 8 Co q ace oe :
S “sac, “SPATTIE 885-0)" - bare: “10/ 10/59
ci emies . covNE

"PLYING DISC" REPORT

At 9; 15 a.m, 10/10/59, Mrs. NEEE-GOTSCHALL,.
residence address - 7525 - 28th S. Cas Seattle, elephone ~
WE 7-6896, wife of an Administrator in the "Bonlarc Air
Space" section of Boeing Airplane Company, telephonically
advised that between 4 a.m. and 4:45 ‘em. she observed a
very bright light toward the east from her residence and
this light had a tremendous brilliance, which appeared to
be about the size of a dime and the light kept moving
v@értically in and out of ‘Sight but did Bet ‘seem to move
peti ee : :

7 “ GOT SCHALL aie she eestaesd her husband
and asked bin to look at this strange light and her
husband observed it and said it was very weird and he had

no ——- as to what it might | be. : :

‘Mrs. GOTSCHALL said both she and her husband
are ieagtics on the matter of flying saucers but both of |
them are now ready to "join the club." She said that she
even put her coat on and went out on the patio and ob-
served the strange light which kept disappearing and then
coming back into sight and she noted when two airplanes —
went across the sky, this light disappeared.

It is suggested that a letter be written
on this matter to OSI.

hina

| Nw 90291
) Docid:34714596 Page 52

Addres
AY. SSSEEEE"Taoo 18945)

‘October :. g 1950 :

Col. Paul A. Hurst, USAF
egg emg et

26th SW Seattle, ss Lep ph s1% Bit 2
toward the East from her reside
that this light, whieh appear:
dime, had a tremendous bed lisence. light. A eek :
pony — ertisally ‘in and out. of sight, but ty not ‘seem
to move horizontally. —

=. _fotschel) said that she awakened her hus
who is an ac and re — at and perme gh Airplane Com a :

it eo light. 3 of tine and had husband had as to what
it might be.

Mrs. Gotschall said that both she and her husband
had been complete skeptics on pee _ business of flying. saucers’
but that after observing this phenomenon they are now ready
to"join the club." She said that she even pub on @ coat
and — out — the yard » f gl ¢ dts light more clearly.
Cac after two it 2

No a is nin cor Soe into thie matter by
the FBI and the above is being as for whatever value
it may be to you. :

CHD:msd

JOO fEP US fie

| Docld:34714596 Page 53

STANDARD FORM NO, 64 a ee ge

Offic ce Me ! nes

‘ANAUML + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE:

me SAC, ne 8/18/60

FROM : SA MERTON R, ANDERSON LAO @~-A EFAS

S, spexane , Wash.

SUBJECT: UNIDENTIFIED FLYING mate =

REAUME ost, Fairchild AFB, Geiinnal Wash. advised -
_that his office received a telephone call from DOUGLAS BASS, the husband ef MURIEL BASS, 1223
_E. Celesta, Spokane, and she had informed her husband that she observed an unidentified’
flying object in the skies over Spokane.

REAUME said he personally contacted her and determined the following information:

| She was in front of her house about 2 or 2:30 P.M. on 8/12/60, and gazing up in

| the sky she observed a bomber and a fighter plane in the sky. She said she saw an object

| approach from the southeast which appeared toe be traveling straight across at a very fast
rate. The object had a slight orange shde, looked like a feotball, and was almost
illuminated, She saw no trail or exhaust fumes, and heard no sound except from the planes.

She told REAUME she did not believe the object was "going straight", however it
maneuvered slightly, and she lobt it from her fiéad of vision behind a wept She said the
light was geod, the sky was clear and the sun was shining.

She told REAUME this was the second sighting for herself of an object of this
type, having formerly seen another one at Longview, Washington some six years ago, which
was corrborated by others.

aS ee rt ee eT Eg at a ee

REAUME stated that he determined MURIEL BASS is 36 years of age, a housewife
| and nurses aid, and from observation at her residence, the home was clean, and she appeared
from her conversation te be well educated. He stated MURIEL BASS is of the negro race,

) i It is noted thet an item appeared in today's Spokesman Review of Spokane
concerning unidentified flying objects, which appeared to be similar to these
MRA/ described by Mrs. BASS. |

a ae “i NDEXEO Mer (eh

: “we 9 1960

sie acne ai.

| NW 90291
) Docid:34714596 Page 55