-1 of 2-

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

(Sam, Orricia. Recor
FD-302 (Rev. 5-8-10) E 4 Cocumant

Date of entry 4 202

| | On March || 2025, Ps was interviewed via Microsoft Teams by
Special Agent (SA) QM, and supervisory Special Agent (SSA)
Also present for the interview was

SII, Arter being advised of the identity of the
interviewing agents and the nature of the interview, | | provided the
following information:

i, 5

|| The UAP sighting occurred on a workday in early February 2022, at
approximately 1:00 or 2:00PM in the afternoon. i
a
Fort Carson. He and four other persons from his unit, including his P|
| drove the short distance over to the Ps That day it
was pleasant with clear blue skies. After they parked, they were walking
west towards the entrance of the building. It was natural to look west
because of the beautiful view of Cheyanne Mountain.

MH oat that time, JB and the four other soldiers with him all noticed a
very strange object that appeared to be hovering just over Cheyanne
mountain, in a low point or “saddle” in the mountain. | | described the
object as being matte white, or off-white in color and appearing non-
metallic. The object was oval shaped and in a horizontal position, with a
curved indentation on the bottom. | | described the object as being “bean-
shaped”. The object was completely motionless and no sound could be heard
coming from it. All five of the men saw the object and were pointing it out

Investigation on 03/§/2025 at

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.

United States (Other (Teams Meeting) )

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Contimation of ED-302 of fF Interview of PY On 03/2025 ,Page 2 Of 2

to each other.

a f did not believe the object was drifting in the wind because they
observed the object for approximately 3-5 minutes, and it did not change its
position relative to the saddle of the mountain during that time. The object
was covered in intersecting lines or ridges which formed an abstract polygon
pattern which covered the entire object. f | stated the object was about
the size of 10% of the saddle of the mountains, or about the size of a pool
cue at arms-length.

| | None of the five men had a phone on them PY

They all simultaneously looked away
momentarily to decide to have one of them go back to the vehicle to get a
phone to take a video. When they looked back the object had vanished. They
searched the western skyline but were not able find the object again.

a They were all confused what they should do next, Po

They got together afterwards to discuss what
they had seen. They wondered if they had seen a UAP, and went through the
alternatives it could have been, such as a blimp or a weather balloon. Each
of them independently drew what they remembered the object to look like, and
then they compared their drawings afterwards. All of the drawings were
consistent in showing a horizontal, white, “bean-shaped” object with
abstract lines crossing on it. JJ believed that I made an
official report to the army about their observation. | stated he was
contacted by AARO in early 2024 about their observation. He stated he
provided a response, but that he was never interviewed by AARO or anyone
else.