se

% Orricia. Recorp

FD-302 (Rev. 5-8-10)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date of entry

On M202,
Was

interviewed telephonically by Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Special
Agent (SA) ee. After being advised of the identity of the
interviewing agent, | provided the following information:

approximately 210@with the intention of driving north on rT

for area reconnaissance. When they arrived at the gate to | tti‘i‘*@Wd it

was raining heavily, so they waited for the rain to subside, which it did

shortly thereafter. en © 2=> unlocked the gate and began

driving north on a. At approximately 2200 | F after they had
a

gone approximately 25 miles, noticed a red light at the crest of
the mountain range to their west and pulled over to investigate. Initially,
| Sti‘(‘C‘é~*r thought the light was something on the mountain, but it began to
move to the east. Due to the mountain range being approximately 5000 feet
and the cloud cover being at approximately 7000 feet, | stated he
believed the light was traveling somewhere between 5000 and 7000 feet above
acini 5 minutes, as (| watched
)

xXimately 6 to 10) lights appeared directly

1

evel (AGL). After appro
ight, multiple more (appro

rved light,

their position. These lights, along with the first-obse

my uw“ a

eare o “syne up” and traveled to the east/southeast. During this time,
of the lights descended rapidly fF estimated approximately 1000
feet), then disappeared. The other lights continued east/southeast and

disappeared as well.

GN le sscribed the lights as red in color and stated that a first
glance, as well as when observed through Night Optical Devices (NODs), the
lights appeared as a single point of light, however upon closer observation,

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBL It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency: it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Continuation of FD-302 of Po On 2

ho

026 Page 2 of

or while “squinting,” the lights appeared to each be three separate lights
in a triangular or diamond-shaped pattern. f stated that each
“cluster” of the three lights moved in tandem and never separated, as if all
three lights were attached to the same object. PF also noted that the
cloud cover was heavy at this time, to the point that no stars were visible.

At approximately 2350 a, fF witnessed two lights on or close to the
ground to their east, which were only visible using NODs. One of lights
moved west toward their position and the second, which was south of the
first, moved north and stopped in the vicinity of the first light. Both
lights appeared to stop approximately 200-300 meters from their position. As

watched these lights to his east, he saw a rapidly moving streak
of light on the periphery of his vision. GE escribed it as analogous
to how a sparkler or flashlight looks at night if someone moves it quickly,
where the “light tail” is visible behind the light source. f turned
to look at the source, but was only able to see a bright hue of light
emitting from the vicinity, as the source was in a defilade. The hue moved
north, following the defilade until it faded out or disappeared. The lights
to their east also disappeared.

PO then got into their vehicle and attempted to drive east

to the vicinity of their observations but were unsuccessful. They then
returned to their original position, parked and exited the vehicle. After
some time, nz walked back to the truck to check his phone and give his
eyes a break. JJ then asked FP what time he had and relayed that
his watch was 25 minutes fast. fF was wearing a digital PY
watch, which displayed the same time as their cell phones and the vehicle
clock. JAY s watch was the only analog/non-digital clock and was the only
clock that was different.

f relayed that he had known P| for years and described him as
“squared away.” Having an inaccurate watch or faulty gear was not something
he would let happen. Moreover, had been looking at his watch
throughout that day/night and it had been accurate up to that point.

PF stated he did not have any physiological reactions/effects during
or after the above-described events.