-1 of 3-
FD-302 (Rev. 5-8-10)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

On January (i, 2026 SN vas interviewed EE by
Intelligence Analyst Re. and Supervisory Special Agent fF

After being advised of the identity of the interviewing agents and
the nature of the interview, fF provided the following information:

On October 9, 2023 at approximately 10:50 PM, 9M and his wife were
sitting on the back porch of their residence located at [I
f Colorado Springs, Colorado. The porch faces toward the southwest,
and he and his wife were sitting with their backs towards the house.
fF did not remember seeing many stars in the sky that night even though
the sky was clear. As fF was looking up, he suddenly noticed that

invesignion on 01/9/2026 1 TT MEM united states i

by

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. [t is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Continuation of FD-302 of J Interview of 3 On 01/2026 Pa: 2 OF 3

something had flown over his house from behind him, coming from the
northeast, and was moving away from him towards the southwest.

The UAP appeared low in elevation, possibly as low as 300 feet. He
estimated it was roughly the size of a large SUV based on his elevation
estimation. From J viewing perspective, at arm’s length, the UAP
appeared to be the size of the space between his thumb and pointer finger,
which he approximated as 5 inches. fF did not think he would have
noticed the UAP if it was a cloudy night. [RJ first noticed the
object’s movement before actually seeing its silhouette. When fF
first spotted the UAP he thought it appeared almost see-through, and it had
what appeared to be a haze or distortion around it. He further described it
appearing as if you were looking at it through mist; and that there were
ripples like you were looking at an object that is underwater.

The UAP looked like a perfect triangle, however because of his viewing
angle, he couldn’t definitively say whether it was isosceles or equilateral
in shape. fF stated the UAP could have been either dark gray or silver
in color which would have blended into the night sky, and with the
surrounding distortion, it may have caused it to have the appearance of
being translucent. [J thought the triangle had rounded edges and
corners, but stated the distortion around the UAP may have made the edges
less sharp in appearance. The UAP traveled away from him and his wife with
a point forward-facing. As it traveled away from them, along the trailing,
flat, back edge, it had what appeared to be a band of silverish blue light.
WM bypothesized that the light could have been caused by the mode of
propulsion for the UAP.

The UAP moved in a straight path at a consistent elevation. It moved
very quickly and covered a large distance in the short time they observed
the UAP. Just before they lost sight of the UAP, the left side of the
triangle banked up quickly to an almost vertical orientation, but it did not
change path or elevation. The UAP was completely silent, and J cid
not feel any rumble, static, or any other effects from the object as it
passed over him. Ps residence was near an airport and he frequently
observed aircraft, including private planes and helicopters, flying over his
house. He was very familiar with how a normal aircraft should appear and
sound flying over his house. [RJ witnessed the UAP for a total of four
seconds from when he initially saw it to when he lost sight of it to the
southwest, potentially over PF ee. The UAP
disappeared from his visual sight sooner than JJ expected it should
have. fF stated the entirety of the observation was so quick he did
not have a chance to get his phone out to take a photo or video.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Continuation of FD-302 of J Interview of Ps On 01/2026 Pees: 3 OE S

fF was very familiar with all USAF aircraft, including the latest
unmanned drones. The UAP he and his wife observed did not match anything he
encountered before. The UAP was only a triangle without any extra wings,

fins, or any bubble for the engine housing. [iy

Immediately following the event, both fF and his wife, who also

witnessed the UAP, went inside to separate rooms and PF fF

PY P wife remembered seeing a dark seem running
around the edge of the UAP, [jis