-lof 2- : Att. Orria. Asconc
° ‘ween S

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

FID-302 (Rev. 3-8-10)

Le >: ees sss ES. s«*25 interviewed along with
2 ee ee eee es eee.

After being advised of the identity of the interviewing agents and the

nature of the interview, NE provided the following

information:

Mi on Rn. MS acxived home in the evening around 9:15pm.
Once parking in the driveway, QR noticed a ball of light through gy

windshield which was yellow and about the size of a basketball. Upon exiting
the vehicle, QR) saw 4 second ball of lignt which was larger and about
the size of a beach ball. The okjects were benind a row of trees, which have
since been taken down but in front of a section of trees between gy
property and QJ neighbor's property behind the home. (yyy was able to
look at the lights without strain or discomfort on || eyes.

stated that 9p has not had any health issues or concerns since seeing these
objects.

[Agent Note; Based on where 9p was standing, the objects were
approximately 30 yards away and 20-30 feet above the ground].

|i Upon seeing the lights, Qygg came outside to views the objects as
well. Both QR) and QMM§ observed the objects move laterally to their
left, passing behind a tree approximately 36 yards away, at the same height,
continuing pehind a neighbor's house and beyond a tree that was
approximately 75 away. It was at this point where yy stated that gy

Saw one orh going inte the arher orh hafore disapneaaring ahruptly.

Ml gM stated that a few weeks after this event, [saw several white
orbs travel over JJ house from the west to the east. These white orbs were
traveling much higher in altitude than the prier red orbs.

| | In 1987, JB stated that gg had witnessed something strange off of
GS «HE cer power lines. gm saw a red light

cireling around itself at night described it like the front end of Kit from

United States (In Person)

File #

by

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FB). It is the property of the FBI and is loaned wo your ageney: it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.