-lof 2- Fi Orricia. Aeconp

F®-302 (Rev, 5-8-10) tee

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION hie =

Dateofenry _

On February @®, 202¢, @j GMB. cmail address: fs
ES GE s,s interviewed by a a a oe.
2S a ee ees 2 ee ee ©
videoconference on Microsoft Teams. Also presenz for the interview was §yy
es es eee ee ee en eee eee eee oe ee
Gaas—C(ié‘sA ttc Ceing advised of the identity of the interviewing agents
and the nature of the interview, GR erovided the following information:

Gam received a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics & Finance fron yy Gy
CE GE. «MB previously worked as j i 2 os oy
2 0 es then became an a 2 oe oe
=. currently is the i i Gs ee

EE ees 2: 2 esc st

i. Hl Ga. GM xecterned home that night at approximately 9:15PM

EST. As QM was pulling into their driveway, which slopes downhill towards
their residence, QM noticed an intense Eright light hevering below the tree
line in the middle of their backyard. yg got out of Qygg vehicle and stared
at the strange light for a few moments before reaching back into gj vehicle

to retrieve Qj phone se gg could take a video of what gg was seeing.

At the same ctime, QM was sicting inside expecting Qj] MJ to arrive
home. (§§ checked QM security camera and saw QJ standing next to §yy
vehicle looking into the backyard. (3 then went outside to join §yyy and
see what Qj was looking at. (QR described the light as a red sphere
that was about one meter in diameter. 9 described the red celer as being
brilliant and beautiful, and that BB had never seen anything Lhat color of
red before, (3) stated that inside the red sphere, at the center, there
appeared to be what QJ described as a “white plasma sun” about the size of a
basketball.

AS QB 2c a QM watched, the orb UAP moved up and to their left.
They then noticed there was a second, identical orb, hovering above the

Investigation on ,;§ United Slates (OQLher (Microsoft Teams} }

File #

by

This document conlains neither recommendatiuns nor conclusions of the FBI. !t is the preperty of the FBI and is loaned te your agency; it and its conten are not
lo be distributed outside your agency.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10}

Continuation of FD-302 of || Interview of iii’ On r | mee 2: of 22

first one. The orbs then moved together towards the west above the tree
line. QR stated that from the start of the observation to when the orbs
traveled out of sight, they exhibited both a change in altitude and a change
in direction. The orbs were silent and moved in a smooth motion. They
moved in tandem as if they were flying in formation or were tethered
together. As they moved out of sight, 9 saw the orbs merge together
inte one orb, or were so close together that gg could only see one orb.

Gus 20d captured a video of the orbs beginning at the point when
they were above the trees and moving away from their backyard. The video is
contained as an attachment to this interview document.

A few weeks later, QR stated Chat 9 saw several white orbs travel over
| | house from the west to the east. These white orbs were traveling much
higher in altitude than the prior red orbs. [QR described them as
appearing the size of a dime held at arm’s length.

Rr rarer tL LR RR A