5 ee ay

B= : . Orricia. Recorp

FD-302 (Rev. 5-8-10)
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ca

Date of entry y20

interviewed by Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Hpech al Agent (SA)

After being advised on
the identities of the interviewing agents, ia provided the following
information:

On 202¢, MD nc ES ee ee
| Po at approximately 7:45pm and were headed to a
location on the central/northern portion of | Weather condition at the
time was rainy with significant cloud cover. Approximately 30 minutes after
passing through the Ps (approximately
8:00pm-8:30pm), Fc ti (iststsi‘éi‘iz‘w‘S saw two unidentified lights in the sky,
pulled over to the side of the road and exited the vehicle to investigate.

| described the lights as “dash” shaped and dull red in color to the
1aked eye. The lights moved along the ridgeline of the mountains to his
west. | ES equipped with Night Optical Devices (NODs) and observed the
lights through said optics as well. P| relayed that, despite being “dash-
shaped” to the naked eye, the lights appeared “orb-like” or circular through
the NODs, with the characteristic “NOD halo” around them, which is typical
when looking at a light source through NODs. | | stated that he is very
familiar with using NODs, as he has been using them for 25+ years and has
many hours of experience. na stated that he has astigmatism and while the
objects appeared "dash-shaped" to him, BN sc ated they appeared
triangular or diamond-shaped, which could possibly be attributed to fF
astigmatism.

After approximately 20 minutes, both of the aforementioned unidentified
lights disappeared. Shortly thereafter GME observed, another, similar

United States Y |
Investigation on | ti (twté‘z@d at

‘ic? i Date érated MMP 026

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency: it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Interview of

Continuation of FD-302 of .On QP 026 page 82 of 3

unidentified light appear directly above their location and was visible for
approximately 10 minutes, before it, too, disappeared.

Sometime between 10:00pm and 11:00pm, J observed another, similar
unidentified light appear approximately 600 meters (estimated) to the east

0

f their position and appeared to be approximately 500 feet above their
vehicle. The unidentified light appeared to move toward them and stopped

approximately 400 meters away. A second unidentified light appeared and
moved toward, and then stopped in proximity of, the first. The second light

appeared to be approximately 6 feet off the ground.

As MM watched the two unidentified lights to the east, he noticed light
in his peripheral vision descend from altitude and stop in a dry wash

approximately 100 meters behind them. Although | | could not directly see
the light source, he observed the glow emanating from the wash. [
watched the glow move through the wash.

PO ntered their vehicle and drove up to the next
intersection in attempt to get a better view of the unidentified lights to
their east. Upon arrival, the lights were no longer observed. [XR

f returned to their original position, but were unable to re-acquire
the unidentified lights. EER) walked 10-20 meters away from the vehicle to
look around the area; f remained near the vehicle.

At this time, f | adjusted the filter on his NODs to look at his watch,
which displayed approximately 1:00am (estimated based on memory). ae:
watch was a FP Men’s Automatic Analog Watch. f | walked back
to the vehicle to check his phone, which displayed 12:40am. na noted the
discrepancy, compared the time displayed on his watch to the time displayed
on his phone and observed that the time on his watch was 25 minutes ahead of
the time on his phone and the vehicle’s digital clock. P| relayed the
discrepancy to ER, whose digital watch displayed the same time as the
phones and vehicle clock.

MM sc ated that he had owned that watch for approximately 5 years, and it
had never been off by more than 60-90 seconds. had last checked the
time on his watch at approximately 10:00pm, and it was accurate at that
time. Ye stated that his watch was the only mechanical/analog/non-digital

clock in the vicinity at that time and it was the only clock that displayed
a different time. JJ did not adjust his watch or reset the time for 24
hours to see if it continued to malfunction; the watch continued to keep

accurate time but remained 25 minutes fast.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Interview of

Continuation of FD-302 of On BMD eee 3 oF 3

P| told agents that he had spent a considerable amount of time at a a
facility looking up at the night sky, and was familiar with how
stars/satellit 's/me' teors look to both the naked eye and with NODs. FY
stated that the he observed and described were unlike anything he had

seen before. =e stated that the lights he observed on fF did not

behave like satellites, as satellites track linear across the sky, whereas

tated the unidentified lights moved around and changed

appeared to be as low as 6 feet off the ground.

he low-elevation lights described by J
would have been backdropped by the mountains and below the relative horizon

line

he observed was not a UAS that he familiar with. Jf noted no exhaust or
tail when these objects moved, and they exhibited no audible sound
signature. JJ attempted to observed the objects through thermal optics,

but was unsuccessful.

MME noted no physiological effects from the events. [stated that the
observations did not induce a fear or agitation response — just curiosity.

5
Po conversed about this afterward, and given their

backgrounds, found it strange that they did not feel fear or threatened

during their observations.

f | provided his contact information and was open to further contact from
agents.