FD-1057 (Rev. 5-8-10) FP .
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Electronic Communication

Title: ar: survey of 3 | | Date: 12/9/2024

From:

Approved Sy:
Drafted sy:
Case ID #: Po GR identified Aerial Phenomenon

Contact:

synopsis: JD site survey of a a

Enclosure(s): Enclosed are the following items:

Photos around QE QM Photos taken on SA

FBI issued phone.

Photos around ee i | Photos taken on SA

FBI issued phone.

Photos around SN) GHEE QJ Photos taken on SA

FBI issued phone.

Photos around rt‘ és*l ;—si—CSY™Y a Photos taken on SA

FBI issued phone.

Photos around Qa ha QM Photos taken on SA

FBI issued phone.

Photos around ) GN) «GB Photos taken on SA

FBI issued phone.

Details:

| 12/2024, special Agents (sa) Ny so QE, anc
SA

surveilled the area around CE ix Gas

Re: 12 M2024

Gs she purpose of the surveillance was to take photographs and survey the
locations where SA f | and SA fe observed Unidentified Aerial Phenomenon
(UAP) activity on 11/§/2024.

| Agents walked the perimeter of QJ in a clockwise direction at
approximately 10:30am. Agents followed a marked trail which was approximately a
two mile loop around PY and departed from the trail in areas to the West

MMM oon the Northwest side of QJ et epproximately 11:00am, Agents
departed from the marked trail and descended to the water's edge. Facing South,
Agents were able to see fF Yd property at PF without any
obstruction and full line of sight. In the vicinity where Agents viewed UAP
activity on 1142024, there did not appear to be anything unusual present on
the ground or at treetop level.

a Agents continued toward the North side of FP also in the

vicinity of UAP activity observed on 11/$) 2024, there did not appear to be
anything unusual present on the ground or at treetop level. There was an area
that appeared to be a once used as a fire pit, but there did not appear to be any
evidence of recent burns as the ground was blanketed with leaves. As Agents

departed the marked trail and descended to the water's edge, Agents had line of

sight to multiple homes on PY to the East of PF

ree cover throughout the area around PY was moderate and Agents
assessed that it would be unrealistic for someone to fly a drone or other craft

at night without the risk of crashing into tree limbs.

4