» OrriciaL Recor
Documunt pat * Ja ples gt

FD-302 (Rev. 5-8-10) 2 ony

95 All sicnalur

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date of entry 04 MB /2024

On March J 2024 J phone number , cesiding in
Supervisory Special Agent JM, special Agent (SA) [I
and SA MN. Also attending the necting «cs i J
es «. N.svas referred to the FBI by J After being advised

of the identity of the interviewing Agents and the nature of the interview,
provided the following information:

GR stated that starting in October 2023, a lot of pilots have been
seeing the same event occurring, namely seeing lights in the sky. Pilots

have been discussing the events over Pilots
typically saw them between midnight and 3 AM. [J did not know if the
events occurred at that time because that was when it was dark enough or if
it was because that was when the lights were present.

GN first observation of the lights occurred in October 2023. [yy
was flying from Boston, MA to Dublin, Ireland where he saw the lights in the
northeast towards Gander, Canada. [9 was at an elevation of 37,000 feet
and believed the lights were higher than him, probably at 50,000 feet or
higher. The lights were white in color, would start out as dim, and get
brighter before they eventually faded out. The full cycle of the lights
would range from 10 seconds to one minute. The lights looked like airplane
landing lights, but | knew that it was not them, nor did he think it was

Investigation on 03/2024 at United States

y

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Continuation of FD-302 of | | Interview of P ,On 03/2024 ,Page 2 Of 3

Starlink, Starlink flares, satellites, or meteors. It ranged between one to
four lights at a time in the sky. Some lights did not move, while others
moved in straight lines, sometimes changing direction, and typically did not
move in a coordinated fashion.

Since spotting the lights the first time, | has seen them
approximately ten times. At times the lights would disappear for minutes
before returning. [J has seen the lights for 45 minutes up to two
hours. ; has seen the lights in all directions except for towards the
south. |) saw the lights three times in the direction of North Dakota
while flying to either Seattle or Phoenix. He has also seen them off the
west coast and mid-Atlantic coast. f did not know how far away they
were but ventured they were between 200-500 miles away. [J never saw the
lights below the horizon and had not heard about them prior to October 2023.

During a trip on February 9, 2024, QJ was able to capture video on
his Samsung Galaxy S22 phone an event involving white lights. [JJ stated
the lights were brighter in-person than on the camera, and the lights were
Similar in elevation to him or were slightly higher. The video is filmed
from the cockpit of his aircraft with the lights turned off. [J was
located approximately 150 miles northwest of Minneapolis, Minnesota and was
flying towards the east. The lights were seen towards the north in the
North Dakota region at around 4:36 AM Fastern Standard Time on a clear

As captured on the video, white lights were seen, sometimes ten or more
present at once, moving around in straight lines and getting
brighter/dimmer. At the 3:27 mark in the video, a was not sure if two
of the lights were really close together or if it was a single light with a
tail. At the 3:47 mark, J did not know if it was three separate
lights. At the 5:22 mark you can see the flight panel, showing that the
airplane was traveling at approximately .80 Mach, and that the airplane was
40-50 miles northeast of Sioux Falls and could see the KFSD airport on the
radar. a never felt unsafe from the white lights, and did not believe
the lights were within 100 miles of him.

A third event that JJ witnessed occurred back in June 2002. While

GASsaas 2 reservist, JJ got activated to go to Afghanistan. One

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

Continuation of FD-302 of | | Interview of P ,On 03/2024 ,Page 3 Of 3

night he was outside looking at the stars with another pilot. At
approximately 4:30 AM local time, | | noticed that the stars were getting
blacked out over Bagram. It appeared as if something huge went overhead,
from west to east, and was an equilateral triangle shape. The object was
moving silently, at a consistent speed and altitude, possibly 150 knots,
with no lights visible. [JJ estimated it was 500 feet in size, but he
could not fully see the shape of the object. The other pilot with P|
also observed the triangle, and when it passed over stated, “did you see
that?” | | stated he did not further discuss the sighting with anyone
else nor did he hear anyone else discussing the sighting.

ns § Looking through the data, i’

never found information that could explain what he saw in Afghanistan in

2002.

not. aware of anything that would explain what he had seen.

Overall, P| believed that not a lot of discussions were happening
openly about the events with the lights. P| did not think there was as
much stigma surrounding these events, but people were just not used to
talking about it.