sossess B Little bit, my skin waswt and it didn't stick the way it had stuck
when we tried it out im the trainer and in the capsule on the pad end I finally
gave up on it and just kept one eye shut. This is marginally satisfactory, I
guess, but I was not well nighted after coming up to the first night. There's
@ redundancy here but you sure do have the right information or cases so a

| few of these will be repeats. How lets start out with the conditions of
dark adaptation.

) Well, most of these things that we had planned to look into if we could
on Astronomy sort of vent by the boards I apologize to the people at the
Cape tit wo éida"s get api mows (Gene Kies ve hed gleneed to dn’tat a0 I
think most of you are aware, at the end of the first orbit we start, having

some difficulty with control systen fa {from then on it was pretty mch eystens
monitoring with some locking around outside and that was it. So a lot of the

ee ere eee ee eee eee ee
back just had to go down the drain, but becoming night adapted--the first
time around I did get the eye patch out that we had gad ithis was not © very
satisfactory eye patch. I was going to try to use it over one eye so that

Ii was sweating a little bit, my akin wae wet, it didn't
stick the way it had stuck when we tried it out in the treiner and in the
capsule on the pad, gid I finally gave up on it and just kept one eye shat.
This is marginally satisfactary I guess but I was not well night adapted
Coming up to the first night. What it boils dowm to is that my dark adaptation
vas just @ result of the sun going down and mms normal dark adaptation fron

being on red light and dim light which takes some 10 to 15 minutes to get any

2
Seen, OF as Fe T could notioe « difference in the mumnere of
ota Sakalh ext teak pibaladiialanlts bill Waid ag cian hak
when I'@ be well night adapted [at the end of the period This is some BM 37
mimutes later when you're approaching sunrise so you'd have @ -- I suppose
Sneek sa SUGAR: sainaia Vaid ibe seiilkieg “sans eden ak Gok @ half
hour, 33 minutes, something of thet order.

Did you have on opportunity to count the stars?

No, this is one of those things that went Gow the drain. I thought
about this on a subsequent orbit but I didn't spend any time on it. I feel
that my vision, the mmbers of stars I could see was not appreciably increased.
How, I had expected to see a lot more stars. I hed thought they'd really =
dump out once you got above the atmosphere but I--like it was in debriefing -
I think £6 the being out on the desert on = dark night in sumer when the
air is very clear and dry, sx@ You know what it is Like out around Reno and
sone of those places; how the sky really comes out si night end you can/sce
million stars. ga thats what it locked Like. It @idn't look like any more
then that.

This was a general impression but not enything you can put ymef your
finger on?

Thats right.

You had planned at the end of the second and third orbits--during the
second ané third orbits to rum the star counts and ve hed the areas lined up

WO-RI-AN, GAS-I-0-PIA, and vhat was the other one--it was off a little

triangle area by SERIOUS off O-RI-AN. We had those three areas lined up and
it was just--I was doing systems monitoring at that time rather then counting

3
sters. But a general impression of looking cut at these areas was that the
muibers of eters I could see vas not greatly increased.
You mention the tranamission through the glass be comparable ... to the
atmosphere. That's something you people can check.”

would not see too many more stars becuse the trenmmission of light through
the window is cut dowm by 27 per cent or something like that. The figure
that they came up with was almost identical to what people have computed the
atmospheric attenuation of light is. So they felt that when we got above the
atmosphere it would probably be about the same looking through the window as
it te locking through the atmosphere here, and I think they were just about
right. It locked to be about the sane to me.

I think it might be wise for you to read the next 3 or 4 paragraphs.
I think a lot of these are going to be real quick enewers, so why don't u
you get to it.

‘Did you see Magellanic Clouds? No. Andromeda Nebula? No. How muh
MM Tremendously. We hed moon out--almost full moon. ‘You can look at this
8 da ways, US 20 wan 6 teemnatoentd Cansteattags tr 14 was 0 trenentons
edventege. I prefer to think it was em advantage because it did provide a
visual capsbility on the ¢clouds--on the dark side which was sufficient that

sor
I could use it for a EAR reference where it might have been questionable

whether I could do that otherwise.

b
— Was this bothered or being bothered by moonlight on the windows or
was the sky actually bright?

No. The sky was not bright. I didn't notice the sky being bright at all
nor was it moonlight bothering on the window of the capsule. It was moonlight
on the surface of the earth back from the clounds when I locked down that
etvehies < uakh ine. too Sans,

Yes, Dut I heard you say that the moonlight very definitely did bother

your ability to see faint areas. i'm trying to find out in what way.

Well I don't-~perhaps thet was a misstatement. I don't think it really
4

hurt on seeing fainters I don't believe. I was thinking of the more complete
night adaptation we would have without any moonlight at all. This is so
slight you couldn't--I doubt if you could pinpoint BM@UNMy differences.

What about daytime stars?

Daytime stars I couldn't--if I was going along and looking down at the
horizon, the area behind the capsule and would look up, I couldn't see any
et all. But when we had the smell end of the capsule up above the horizon
and over to the right where it was shaded from the gun, then if I stayed in
that position for, oh, anything over a minute, I guess, then I could see the
brighter stars start coming out. I never remained in that position long SGD
MRM enough to become night adapted where I could identify constellations or
pick out @ecific stars but I wanted to see whether we could pick up stars on
the daylight side and you could after about I guess & minute adaptation.

Perhaps we had better move on then to the question of stars very near

the moon.

This didn't seen to be any problem. Looking up fairly close to the moon,
’ I would guess a--counting a mumber degrees probably, you could see right up
to the edge of the moon. The stars would be vicible right up--very close, ite
not Like it ie when-|you bre Mo woe Sun Se real aerlau ]

Pabiy faint stars?

Yes, I think so, just like the other--the whole field of stars you're
locking at, you came up end--the only way, when you swing the capsule around
and you'd be approaching ZHAX area where the moon was, you could tell it
beeause there would be moonlight coming in the window and you would see the
light moving across on the capsule. TMM Thats the only way you would know
that you're really coming close to the moom. You didn't know 4t by the sky
getting & real light ea you come to the moon like you do here. There was 4

a
little area sround it where this was true. It wasn't just/comlete cutoff,

but 1t was nothing like the buildup we have here where you are looking through

Any Comets?

No. Ho comets. I used the first mmect. I had this little poloroid
filter out were were going to use so that we could lock directly at the sun.
This, while I think of it, this was another thing that was rether surprising
to me. The sun is not as blinding as I thought it would be. I told the people
in debriefing down there after experimenting very carefully with this a
Little bit, I looked directly at the sun with the naked eye just as you would
ao here. You've locked up and squinted so that you have really shielded your
uiyen sok Reith eniuatag kth Gta Mittin Mibide 0b Sank tential. And

6

this was very similar. You do the same thing there and I had mo~-there was
no problem with the eyes. The light though, it was very noticable. The
light was a very brilliant clear, white light and what 1+ looked like coming
in the window and the vay it looked on the suit-<the best thing I could
relate it to were the are lights, the brilliant search light are lights thet
they have down at the Cape that are out on theped at might. Its that type
brilliant white light coming in-<very bright. And it was warm enough that
I remember commenting, I put it om the tape I believe at one time that riding
along the sun was coming in end it wes over on my right am and I commented
about my right arm getting appreciably warmer then the left when the sun was
on it. It was e very intense light tut as it came in the window and was
on your er here thats just what it looked Like. It looked like being on the
ped at night with these real bright search lights on. Same type light, it
waan't eny of the ormnge~ish yellowish light.

ovse(Tummdibhe)..+.-se0+. in sive from the UV?

Oh, yes.

This is the difference.

Any unanticipated eiestial features?

The conets I--to get back to comehs here a minute--I guess we didn’t

completely cover that one. See any comets? Mo. Not at all. When the eum

goes down its a--well this wae a very brilliant brillient thing and the light
was spread out guch more in a much broader band out toward the horizons than
i bed anticipated. I hed thought~-I don't know why, mo one had ever briefed
me on this particularly--I thought the eum dow. It would be a little bit of
light right on the .... end bang, thats it. There are nothing but stars

7
from there on. Thats whet I was prepared to see, I guess, but this wasn't the
wey it weg at all. The gun goes down end ite o brillient displey. ‘Theres ali
the spectraa lined up here almost. Just as the sun goes down~--well before the

show on the pictures that I tock too and I'm sorry we don’t have those fhere

te brief you with those but you'll see those later where starting with the sun
down on the horizon there ao great band that runs way out here maybe I think
I estimated sane 45 to 60 degrees on each side of the sun, way out. And it
gradually gak goes down to @ point out here like that. Starting from a
very bright white bend close to the earth end going out te e point out here
ond the other bands of light going from, oh, yellowish and orange color
on up inte the blues as you get off toward the bleck of apace. Just as the
gan sets that Last little sliver of light where I was looking for the green
flesh thet everyone has been locking for, that I hed been briefed on, just
as I'm watehing for that, just as the gun gets dow: on the horimon, why it
joins this long sliver. So you don't actually see that last little sliver of
sun. It goes down, you can tell when it goes down but ite not a clear bali
just going below the horizon like that. Its out in this broad sliver that
goes out toward the horizon.

This bend is priaerily 4 horizon phenomena. It doesn't run
PSMA perpendicular wise?

fo. ite in the stuosphere. Very definitely.

Ite shows it quite well on that photograph there.

i eeelenet i eaeatieeemiein eat ioeiee ad

The zodiacal light I locked for and I never was night adapted enough to see it.
Seler Corona?

8

Soler Corona. Noe. This--once again I think te obsefve these things
properly we ere going to have to be night adapted before we get there ond
thats whet we lost by having other complications on the second

To get back to the unanticipated celestial features.

Well, unanticipated celestial features--the little light spots, lusinous
spots that I saw--I don't think these are celestial features. I don't know
what they ere. Can we get beck to that later? 3

Uh buh.

o dadies wieelhbicaaaatanioeeeed! ‘wbéitens dk ti ois with eniaees ie tht en
sunset lasted--the lightness much longer than I had anticipated. This went
on for some 4 oy 5 minutes that you could still see bright bends and tie then
they would gradually go to a more dim condition but this oceurred--this was
over some quite DMEQER lengtiny period of time-<ebout 5 minutes. I had expected
the light to just go down very shortly after sunset. But it didn't, it was
quite brillient, quite bright for @ long period of time.

Would you concentrate on » Et would be a concentration

ever the horizon but were there many

No. Another unanticipated celestial thing at fmight though was this cloud
that I deseribed, the haze layer or whatever it is. I notice this at firet
because as the stars were coming down toward the horizon they move rather
rapidly down toward the horizon et first. I was watehing one particular star
end 1t got rather dim and I thought well ite going behind the horizon and then it
got brighter egain as it came Gown closer to the horizon and then went out of
sight. Weil. Wines ven X Reckhe Weey carefully X such eea/tbanmn 0 tent Wah

wes some--I think we estimated about 6 to 5 degrees above the horizon and wes

9

probably a degree and a half to two degrees wide and it was quite visible
onee you start looking for it. Tt SARYAIOX seemed to go out and teper out.
Ho, it didn't taper as much as the light at the horizon aid during sunset.
it was more of a solid type Im band. It locked Like the color of it would be
sort of a buff--look like a buff light eolor--I don't know, something Like
this rather than a pure white, be sort of an off color, just not a pure white.

(Question by Dr. Roman inaudible)

Ho. All these things you see are things that we bed plemed to use at
first orbit, mmkix mainly just hold position, get all the redar Gata, ali
the tracking, monitor systems closely and thats what we were doing and then
we flew the first orbit then we were going to broaden this out a little bit
on the second and third orbit end thats mm where we got trapped because the
second and third orbit kept right on doing what we were doing on the first orbit.

We over time in Astronomy. Lets try to finish up real fast end come back

Any Bizast planets?

Yes. Venus, I believe it was--I identified it on the tape, on the chart.

Wasn't it Venus that went down just above the that particular day.
the
Vemus was very visible imned@iately after/Z@i sunset. The sun would go down.

Just as quick as the last light was gone I could see that very clearly. in
fact I believe on the tape I identified that before the sunset. I could see
up that close to it.

(Statement by Dr. Roman, inaudible)

That will come up on the star chart that day. Yes, and we had then all
plotted where they should be. You may be right. I'LL have to check the
chart on that. Venus end Mercury bad been right--closer. We had then

16
identified by the previous shot. I think maybe this one Mercury. Lee shan
cheek the chart on it.

See any stars t

Zo@ieal light. Wo. Solar Corona. Mo. I was not well enough adapted

patterns along that line.

Shedow of earth of sky?

To photograph the Orion region, it looked about the same as it does from
the ground. This area in the center of the Orion that I was trying to use
as @ terget area, the center ster in the belt--we got several pictures of
thet. These were taken with different drift rates on the capsule. We tried
to press the capsule on manual control and get it right on very accurately
and im then use the camera but there was still some drift in the capsule et
that time and I had to keep for it. This is not o steble a
platform es you would lime for this type photography. Made exposures of about

15 to 19 seconds. I was counting off the seconds ayeelf without explosion.

Thete about it. I been interested though to see whether those came out.
I did see some prints and I don't know enough shout evaluating those prints
te know whet we got.

(Question inaudible)

Well, we discussed this during debriefing some, I think we must have had
PRE oe ny thrusters that weren't cutting off absolutely clean, that would
add just a bair of thrust in one axis or another at a time because I would

have the rates tero-ed completely and be sitting right on the spot-ieh

ee rate
of magno control inputs and you'd shart a little drift Summ very slow.
Probably the rift rates wont out over a quarter of a degree per second
during the time that I was trying to make the pictures. But thate enough
if you aritt off and you have to correct back the line you drift off a line
correct back lime, you do this for 15 or 20 seconds, its rether e crude way
to take pictures.

fQuestion inaugibie)

Yes. Hand held and hed it up against the visor to steadiness and turn
it very glowly. We had the loose site on the top¢ of it. A loose site with
@ cross hair end so that I could keep that right on the--lined wp on the stars.
It will be interesting to see if we came out with anything on that.

Make any other comments about our

No. Zt looks about like it does on the desert on @ bright summerf night.

H Twilight. Did the twilight bother you at all? Can you tell us anything
about that.

You mean the light I described wx after sunset?

(Statement by Dr. Roman, inaudible)

The only time twilight bothered either way was when you
because sunrise is the--the early pickup sunrise coming up is in the scope
facing backwards, of course, to the direction of motion and you see the sun
come up and this would--thisQiiSiieiaam twilight, you watch it incresing in the
scope, meanwhile we're holding imumal control most of the time and this was very
Gifficult. For some reasons, this was more difficult to held accurate control
on the periscope at sumrise that it was to look back out the window and hold

12
it visually or on inetrument. And since we were having automatic control
trouble presentation on the attitude, I was trying to maintain control
looking back out the window and to check back and forth between the very
brilliant end bright light coming in at mmrise through the scope and
look back out inte the dark again, I finally just put filter over the scope
and go back to locking out et the stare and whet I w could see on the clouds--
moonlight coming off of them dhe and that seemed to be easier to hold the
position.

The moon look any different to you?

lio. Not appreciably. It was brighter--s lot brighter. Just very clear.
Once again, clearer than 1% is around here, brighter then it is around here.
SHS Once again, out om the desert on a real clear night, its very similar.

Lets push on to the earth questions on your next page, Jom. You said

Gay, haze and airglow band at night?

Yes, I Gi@ try the aizglow band at night end I could sce nothing. This
may have been the lack of night adaptation--I don't know. I wasn't too
concerned about the night edapting so perfectly to that. I trieé the sirglow
particularly on the storm areas over the Indien Ocean. There was a very
iexge storm there to the North, of course, and a sualler one to the South
of eourse, over about the first third of the Indien Ocean. We had wondered if
we could gee lightening from above an@ lightening from above is very, very

visible. Theres no problem at all on that. You can see the fleshee-~you don't

see individual flashes like you see a lightening bolt hit the ground here

13

but you see ea whole thunderhead Light up and

and another one would Rigiiougamam: light up over here and tkere would be some
Light go back an@ forth from here like this very horizontally. And then you
would see another one light up and there wes @ 22% lot of tiomderstormm
activity particulerly in the storm that was to the north, of course. A little
legs to the one south but the Lightening was very visible.

Pretty mich the same thing you see frem a high flying jet, isn't 1+?

Yes. You're a little farther away, of course. Ite similer to that
If you've been up above the--4i0 or 50,000 feet Sem at night and there is some
little low thunderheads vhere you have the-«maybe some of the flashing
@ little bit down at low altitudes, it would be a similar type thing. You're
just farther away from it but there's to problem at atuxmkipeem: all seeing
flieshes. It was on that area to the North, of course, in particular that
I tried to use this airglow filter for e period of time but I didn't get any
pattern out of it at all. This may bave been my lack of night adaptation.

At twilight did you see the shadow of the earth on the atmosphere?

Last of these. Can you describe how the atmosphere changed during the
twilight process? You've already gone over this, if there's nothing you can

Well, I think thet about describes it. One thing I was surprésed at

were the
during the twilight period that might be of some interest wttk little

they were
discontinuities in it but I think memctite just weather build-ups and high
I

clouds off om the horizon. & though the horizon would be extremely even and

14
that the weather would be so that you wouldn't
see any of this but you could see little bumps along in the twilight glow
after the sunset end this shows up in some of our pictures. & You can see
these little bumps along. Do you have copies of those up here?

Not up here. I saw some that were first rum yesterday dowm st the Cape.

We had a first look at these out at Grand Turk. I think the copies wo
got were not the best in the West. They seem to be a little rough. They
had @ lot of specs on them and I'm looking forward to getting beck down
there and going over them again. But you could see some of these. You
could see a little bump out here, there would be a@ little discontinuity.

Bo. They were in the lower part of the light bend so I assume that they
were weether build-ups.

Wheat 4id you estimate the height of the atmosphere to be under daytime
conditions? In fact, this angle of the horizon business?

Well, estimates on the angle, saying thet this was some 6 to 8 dearees
wide, up te this layer for instance was about 6 to 5 degrees wide and 1t wes
maybe @ degree and a makg half or two degrees think. This sort of an estimate
of the size of the over here. We're about 30 degrees in the window
our angle we ean 2k lock out and a little less am than = quarter, maybe a fifth
of this business of--say if you estimate about 6 degrees. When I say &@ 6 to
8 degrees this is not an accurate protractor type measurement.

Could you use e spacecraft as a protractor?

Well I used the window, just the window area
horizon up to the top of the atmosphere? steseererscesereceenss Pond it off
fron the autopilot?

15
You might be able to try this. I @idn’t try it that way. You might
be able to, holding your headiita fix you might be sable to do something Like
that. ‘This would be fetrly accurate. ‘his would put it down, I think, where
you could pick it off within a--our gradations on that attitude control systen
are fairly fine--about, I guess, three sixteenths of an inch is 10 degrees
bat you g could pick it off to within a degree and a half or 2 degrees vith

pretty fair accuracy. /
ZI metice in some of the pictures there is a f image of the sun

@bout 10 Gegrees fron the primary laage apparently due to the 2 thicknesses
of glass.
Yes. I think thate what it was from. I don't recall seeing any of those

at all. I notice them in the sane pictures and there was enocther phenomena
them

in the pictures you may have moticed. In quite ea mmber of Se--I think Bob
noticed it first before I hai--up above the horizon some 15 or 20 degrees
there appeared to be a green band go acrovs that perellel the earth's surface.
Did you notice that in thepictures? And this was in quite a mmber of then.
and I never saw any bend like that at ali. I don't know whether it wes
actually there and just ehowed up on the fils and I just didm’t gee it or
couldn't gee it or whether it wes alwaye when the sun was et « particular
eres out here and it was just a certain reflection off the window or reflection
off the lens of the camera but I think we should probably take those pictures
and try to analyse vhat engle the sun wes to them as well as we possible can.

I think Jomn is doing that right now.

Ie he? Because this green band is @ new one on me. I never saw that
until we got the pictures and I imagine ite just a reflection on the XX Lens.

16
through the window like 2 suns or satellite......?
Did. you. see.any miltiple inages./... (question partially inaudible.........%%

No, no.

Could I @ question here on the surface?

Go ahead.

< notice on the picture here and aleo the comet the description of the

en the horizon in the daytime.
eround thehorizon near the sun.. Was thie a uniform thing

No. It comes out even in broad dayhight. It seems to go out to a little
more of a pointed area out--way out the horizon if you leaned over and Look
out the wimisevindow way out toward the North, for iustance. This would not
be o& broad @ band as it appeared to be when we're w locking back directly
on the flight path, for instance. :

It does appear to exist 350 degrees?

Oh yes.

Were there any apprecieble irregularities in it or was it completely smooth!

Smooth. These are very~~there are fuzzy edges. You don't run up like you
see On the spectrum to this color and to that color. They ell fade into each
other like a rainbow but its a--there are no stuetum discontinuities where e
yellow band was more thick than a blue band here or something like that. They
ell just ran out even.

Ave you referring now te the sunset phenomena?

That tae then too. I was speaking primerily just during broad daylight.

Do you get different colors in broed daylight other than the biues?

dust the Blues end whites during broad daylight. Yes.

17

You notice any--very maryclouds or any peculiar cloud formation?

Yes. We got quite @ mumber of cloud pie pictures and you om pick
out the relative types of clouds. We did wonder whether you could teil
vertical clouds from SER-06 clouds. You can tell what clouds are vertical
development and you get a three dimensional effect. Looking eat them you
can tell that some are higher than others.

aie ehaik ium thdblk oak tilhis thet snide. s6 aire intonaine
particular noteworthy that you might have seen that the pictures might not
show?

I don't think so other than the things we have mentioned here.

(Question, inaudible)

is what Now?

Does your window produce any pam polorization?

We have a real limited degree of polorization in the window.

How many do you have in E form?

I will make a note on that one and check the exact polorization of it.
We had-~~thie was checked at the time that we ran sone star studies in
St. Sects duh & tiie an wats da

The reason I asked

The exact figure on that I can't give you.

Did you pass over any snow propagations, mountains ?

lo. I could see out in the West looking way up North from the area right
over--Well the South of San Diego at the end of the second orbit. ‘There was
80 such cloud cover up to the North that I coulén’t be real pambikkx positive.

18

It ran up and locked like it ren off the edge of a « Then there
were some white areas way up to the North and I imagine these were probably
snow fields. I thought at the time they probably were but I couldn't be
sure. I didn't specifically go over any erea where I could look right dow
at this cloud end that snow. I was surppised at my--and another thing, as
fax as the weather goes, end that is whet e tremendous area of the earth
Se divtiiek te tlinthe Unk -teer i don't know whether we're going to find

that this is customary not. Bat I was surprised. I had very little view
oF lank, begun

Yeo. The intertropical _ } . We bad been briefed on that
and, of course, thet tock care of things all the way across the Pacific.
There was cloud cover all the way atross there. There wae cloud cover over
all Eastern Afries. I never saw the Leke Chad area that I was looking for:
Zt wes covered. The only part of Africa we really got e good lock at was
Western Africa in the desert regions. You could sce the big = dust mxk storms
blowing and these were very visible. I commented on it end Kenya came back
and asid yes that they had been having these dust storms for shout a week.
Tremendous blowing clouds of dust that obscured large--very large areas of
the ground. Coming across the states end, this whole area across WI-HAS
and Northern Mexico, Southern California and that eres, had very large cloud
Leeks on high Wane ital Dieieiiak caaeie ten inne: There were
some breaks in it and you could see through momentarily.

What color were the dust clouds?

They just looked like dust. SGrownish. SMM Just lecked Like « dust storm
you've seen out on the = desert. Geme color. The colors from shove lLocked--

19
I could see no difference in flying in an sirplane at 50,000 feet and lodking
down end seeing colors on the ground the there is from the capsule.
siabtiteatcedh: ten: todo’ Sint: Did you have en opportunity to try
closing your eyes and seeing the Sorenoff Radiation flashes?

Seeing whet?

Radiation fleshes from energetic particles fastened to your eyebalis.

Is thet another . Wirst time I heard of it.

What do you call this again now?

Sorenkoff Rediation by © good Russien frie&d of that name.

Golly, tha missed that one on briefing.

(statement, = insudible)

When a coamic ray passes through a material in which the--tts velocity
exceeds the velocity of light in the mediwa you have this radiation given out-
Sorenkeff Radiation and John Winckler of Minnesota thought that you might be
able to observe this if you shut your eyes when the heavies came through.

Ave these suppose to be very viaible, very bright or just--

No one knows because they never get dow to the earth's surface. They
would have been in the g blue light.

We €idn"t vide around for any period of time vith the eyes closed. There
was gh enough going on that--this eye patch, we had that. That was intentionally

done, not to two eyes, just to one so that you'd still monitor everything that

wes going on. So T aid wot ride aroat witn the eyes_cLu/eny pyruerd o/c"

Alright, Lets get to the lusinous particles. Back to page 1.

20

Thats a good one. That sure is.

Were they all traveling in the same direction and the same velocity?

Yes. They all just appeared to be um sitting out here floating and
they particular didu't have any interaction with each other. They vwere~-
some went running this way end some that way. They all appeared just to be
stetie in their field. ¢ is plane to ee. The only ones that appeared
to move were the ones that seemed to have a little flow

(OY (caaiiciguage tak tha olge of the eapedle ant Lt would Geitt off Like thie

and it would just more or 2mm take its place A . If this

had been gu just & flash, just « momentarily thing, I don’t know, it would
tave been-~I don’t know what I would have //, on one like that.
observed

observe
I sat there and where this thing just as carefully as I could zim it for

some 3 to 5 minutes at three different periods. The lights were not very
dim little lights as though reflections from something. They vere every bit
nis eb Misch bit teanie eis Atak MERMMIOD GAG wn pets, Sanite-oniiowe hab.
And you've seen fireflies out in the meadow or when they just stand out
like very, very bright stars. They were as least as bright as the brightest
fireflies you've ever seen in a situation like that and the light was very
steaay and they were about the seme color as fireflies. This vas a luminous
yellow-green or green~yellow coler. I'd say it was almost an identical to
e firefly and they were just as far at that particularmis time. I would
look out the window this 2 way and there just seemed to be no end to them
out here, no end back this way, no end on this side, up or Gown in particular .

Yes.

20
The density looking perpendicular to your path is about equal to that

I hed 2 things come in mind. One was, I thought we founds the lost
35% Air Force needles, that waa was the first thing. But they weren't--
wasn't like that et all. ‘The other thing, I thought perhaps we were getting
freezing of the water coming cut of the capsule and we were having snow,
something like thet. In fact, later on they called me from the ground and
aatked if I thought that that is what it was. But it wasn't thet type thing
eat all. ft didn’t appear to be eminating from the capsule. The particles
were not closer together~--closer to the capsule than they appeared to be
further away. The average distance of the particles apart was probebiy--
i estimated I think some 6 to 10 feet, in that neighborhood. Cecasionally
one would be right in the shadow of the capsule and would drift up pess the
Window end it looked rather white Like a wee tiny little piece of cotton
or @ little--it looked like a little enow flake. Some little piece of thing
like that. These white suk ones that I saw come up by like that I assume
were the same things as the others out here becaise I never saw anything else
outside of the window.

Did you ever see the sae one go into the shadow and come back out?
Well, I was asked that before and I--ny initial answer to it was yes
and then I couldn't recall any real specific instance where I watched one go
from lumiuousity to white and back to luminous again. Go I can't say
posivively I did on that. I think they did but I don't went to make «

positive siutwatex statement.

2
they were simply white like snow?

Thats right, thats right. They were very Liminous. When the first rays
of the sun would come--when the first rays of the sun came by the capsule is
when I°6 Gee the first ones amd this persisted then some--oh, 5 minutes.

(Lengthy question, inaudible)......7

Tt could be. I won't sgit was. I won't sey it wasn't.

T don't know how you ¢ould have much depth perception but do you have eny
ides about how fer away the fartherest ones were?

Ro. i couldn't estimate how far away they were but you had a very definite
feeling of depth perception through them, mainly, I think by looking out to the
side out here. And if you hed « lot or particles hanging out here and you move
through them see = the ones move as you move them them and the near ones move
right within. Ones fer out move very slowly so this gives you a sense of depth.
4nd I think that the way I perceived most of that.

You say they’re all moving in the sane direction?

Thats right. Pn

Did any move faster than others?

They didn't appear to. They all appear to be hanging mxpez except for the
ones that seemed to come up around the capsule in this flow condition.

(Question, partially ineudible) Did that flow look anything Like

Yes, Thats what we talked about. It id. The few particles that came by
Was just like a almost.

2la
Sex (Statement, partially inaudible)
eavencing @ new theory that this might very well be some full
luminescence of areas around the capsule
we talked ebout this A night and day
change » Whether theres enything of this kind
recombination back in the shadow
of the capsule - Five miles an hour
motions ; area of
capsule speed and so on. I+ certainly seem-~it seem to be mumm connection
with the capsule in some way and not with something coming from outer space.
< estimated 3 to 5 miles an hour differential speed and I--1t wasn't
Over five miles en hour., thets definitely on the high side if we get up to
that. They were just very slowly drifting by. ‘They gradually start a@isappearing
as the sun come up and we got up at more of an angle they gradually start
disappearing. And I couldn't gee anything.
Did you see them before the sun rose?
Did you look for them before that?
Yes. ‘The second time around I was watching for these things.
But you 414 see them as soom as the sun rose?
The very first light of the sun--the very first rays of the sun than
up, you could see the first ones appear just Like that when the sun came up.

Yes.

Do you have an impression of the shape, the structure of the individual
particles.

22

lio. These one that would come fairly clest to the capsule I could see.
Thats where I estimated they were just a very tiny size up to maybe 3/8 of
en inch or half an inch.

Would you characterize them as sort of irregular Like cornflakes, like
crystal, like snowflskes?

They didn't appear to have any oblong pattern to them or any particular
circular pattern. lo real semetry at all.

Were they flat like snow flakes?

These little white things which I ~ think were the seme items were right
up close to the window in the shade looked @ lot like little snow flekes.

Would you say they were speherical or ?

I think more like sort of a sphere.

any distance at all end thentex

they were Luminous and the sum was on them and there was no shugamim shape to--
just like looking at a firefly light. That's the nearest thing I can come--t
keep coming back to because that’s just what they looked like.

(Question, Inaudible).....7

So. Ho. There was no on and off again type thing at all. ‘This was encther
thing thet going back to the stars it was noticable too as we had expected
there wans't any of the--I didn't notice any particular amount of twinkling of

the stars, not like they do down here.
bid

MZ you see any of these particles move ?

No. Its just like you have « big static field like you have gone out
here with strings end placed then in this room and if you cane back and
through that deor and back to way across the room that just what they looked
like going by. It just wasn't--

23

They a1) went by in the direction of

That's right. Wow, I turned around once so I could see if they
were coming toward me. I got around facing toward the mumghighg sunlight.
As I com around and the sunlight was off to my right I could see far

fewer of them at that time than I could see when I was & facing backwards.
This would be on the side may from the sun is & where I could see most
ef them. But they--the ones out here were atill coming towards me. How
this ie--I want to check and see if these were eminating from the capsule.
They were not. They were still coming toward me frou out there so they
couldn't heve been eminagting from the capsule.

From the @ireetion toward mk which you were moving.

That's right.

How close

Six to ten feet apart.

(Question, partiallyinendible) .......you sald you sav it 3 times. Did yout
This was approximately the Samids.cssscccccnesecocessest

Well, this was right at each sunrise. Now this wasmother thing we talked
about. Bill Douglass, I think, fee felt that there might be some possibility
if the earth does have its own band around the equator, juct as some of the
Planets do, that perhaps were were at the edge of @ little band like that
that wes appearing each time we came up past the equator on the dark side
sacl 8% ‘Shak ete bu uciabeaa tek Vas Winans aaah hak. We entered at
sunrise each time. We don't have the data--I haven't checked beck here to
get the data on that yet as to whether this was always right at the equatorial

regionM that we ren into.

Right at the first light of sumrise there was a-<-no other time. I
epecifically looked for them at sunset. As the last light of the sun went
ewny I thought we might see them there. I didn't. This was always at sunrise.
Now, this difference may be that I was more night adepted
at gumrise. Maybe they were there all the way around.

We're running short of time here. Let me get through a couple of these
right quickly.

Whats the longest time you require watching any individual particle?

Gh, I can't answer that as to the length of time I specifially wetched
one particular perticle but they wore not blinking on and off or anything
like that.

Did you have the ispression they would be there if you ss?
they were about 6 to 7 feet apart. ‘The window is only a
certain size_- .

(Statement, inaudible)

Weli, I had the impression I could have sat--I could have been sitting
there and watch one particle for some distence as it went on back maybe for
@ minute or so.

When they were in the shadows of the spacecraft, dia they appear to vary
any. in brightness 7

Ho. ‘They weren't lusttnous when they were im the shadows. I can't
Specifically sey. I watened 5 particles from o luminous condition to
in the shadows non-luminous end back to mm a luminous condition.

(8% Question, ineudible)...?

Gh, yes. I think this is very probable. I could have seen it farther
than thet. They were bright. If you were night edapted and you can see a
very bright firefly from a considerable distence and tits was a--

When you saw this the second and third time around 41a you have the feeling
thet there were any more of less than there was the first time?

Ro. We talkeé ebout that too and I think it was the seme type. I don't
think the density of it was any different. Completely snowed. The first
time I saw these I looked down injo the--I checked sone system@--had been

looking outeide the the cockpit and made a check a check as

I was doing ali the time and had had my head in the cockpit for some Littie
period of tine and glanced back up at the window. I had been doing this just

26
as I could start to begin to see some faint light dow below and I glanced
back up ut the window and ay first impression ves, maxk well we've gotten
way out of attitude and probably come to the because here

it was just like locking’out on a complete star field, there wes no other

reference at all end looking beckvard tovard this dark avea what bad happened,
instead of the even horigon back here that|I had had with the stars up sbove
and the darker eres dow below. Mow in this dark area down below too were
g@ll these other lights pinpointed in. They just looked, at first glance,
like e continuation of the whole star field down inte that ares. I thought
we had drifted up and here I em looking at nothing but eo sterfield and how
aid I ever get into this creuy attitude. I checked iustruments egein and
checked the periscope agath end I hain't drifted. I was still in the sane
attitude I was in except this.big darker area here that had been the earth
back behind it that I had been locking et was wow filled up with el) these
dots as the first light of the sum surfaced.

How long after the sunrise di¢ you observe same of these in the shadows
of the spacecraft? Was it almost immediately or towards the end of tim this

period?

Oh, I don't think there any difference on that as fer as when they
woulé @rift up into thet. ‘This could well have been occurring just as well
when I first cease into thes as they could at the end of the time. I didn't
have ony iapression that there was more metiek drift by the capsule at one
time then another or more flow around the capsule that pulled them in past the
Wingow at one time or enother.

You con't see them on the film?

No. The ones we had out there at Grand Turk I couldn't very--we had
to many Seretches end spots on those pictures that I couldn't really
pinpoint then. But when we get hold of the original pictures and can
project those, I hope that we can see more, I damft don't know. Those
reproductions we had out there were not very satisfactory. I hope the
originals are better then thet. Did you see the originals? Ave they clear?

I sev prints which I think Started to develop. They seen
fatriy clear.

Did you see any of these epote on then? Did you have the film? Did
you look at the flin?

i did not look at the film directly. Bat it not the sort of picture

you bad in Grand Turk. You hed a really gual clear
print that @eme day. |

Thats right. And the way they looked they were pretty :
They weren't the best job I ever caw. I'm afraid I don’t know waht
to tell you except that. i wish I could be more helpful. All I can say is
we observed it ané it was very clear and distinct. it wasn't a reflection
from anything. It was very positive. We observed it @ long period of ‘time
on three different orbits at exactly the same spot. Beyond thet, I have not
the aiiggiumh ides what it is.

We they all the sau color?

Yes. & Very even colored exeept that some of then vould look = little
larger than others, a little brighter than others. The color was idmanhdat
identical.

etdenia’

Were there any changes/looking out the side cross your and back?

Ho. I don't recall any. We talked about thet too and I couldn't recall
that they locked any different in one direction than they did in enother.

(Statement, inaudible)...

It might well have something to do with differences in electrostatic
potential. .

(Question, inaudible)...?

The drift would be like--well if you were looking out--well if e snow
fleke come drifting by the window is something goes 2 very rapidly, of

course. iis: sens Sealing Wek en tale: tenis Sette tiehee just

come Just some up across the window and maybe
around and then drift away ané as it got out there a d&t Little
bit it just seemed te assume its position out here.

(Statement, inaudible)...

Gh, no. $e wack sei 1k Saber sheer Shes Sh Subs ‘inet ieee Wifey
smooth trajectory and rum off like this. It would afift up around here
like that and then it would Gift off on it ow. It looked very mach~-it
just Looked like snow. iu sili Giess*eeek ve tie walt nak oo ane nad
tunnel only with a Gingle particle.

Do you have any on your capsule?

I‘ sure there is. I don't know what it is but I‘m eure there met be

29

Thee would not only be am electric charge, there would be a differential

charge between the window and the outeide of the capsule which could

explain *
(Statement, inaudiblie).....

Well, thats a pretty 2 tough ome. I dom"t know. That would be like--
I hate to be too positive because it might lead you astray but I keep coming
back to the fireflies agua again. Very, very similer to locking out at this--
a big firefly or little firefly. looking out on o real dark night in a pasture
this might be @ email firefly up close and a big firefly farther away. As
you @rift through these things they go by, they all lock reasonably wiifors.
The ones that ere up close and some of the luminous ones were up mm very close.

Definitely, did that make sense?

As they would be up close end then drift away they didn't appear to
diminish their light very rapidly. Just like seeing a firefly again.

Weli. John you kept your dete with us promptly. I think we should let
you go promptly. ,
I hate to break this up too because I want to find cut what these
things are. I don't know thet to tell you. Im afraid I'm about ary on

nev information.
I won't ask you what did ‘they say John
I may have to go back and check them. I'm ready.
(Statement, inaudibie)....

3p
I'é like te get together again because this was the firet real honest

te goodness business like this we've conducted gince I got back here and

this is whet I went to get back to next woek. I'm going back to the Cape

Monday might. I's going to be down there all next week om touring plan

end then probably beck down a the following week again until we get ae lot
of this. I want to go through the Ziuke filles axl and
get back to work and finigh thie type thing this week.

(Statement, inaudible)...

I don't think there's any great urgency from our point of view mainly
it was to get the first impression there is always debriefing.

Any time you would like to get even with us

(Conversation, several, people, inaudible)

Thank you Glen.

Themk you.

ROUGH DRAFT: $/13/62
CODE SCG: MD:dad

MEMORANDUM to Director, Office of Space Sciences

Subject: Considerations and @ecommendations of Weanned
72

YpaceYExploration Wollowing the Vaterview ( February 27)

with Lt. Col. John H. Glenn, Jr7/ Col/ "Glenn presented a
S

very detailed and factual description of his observations

during the MA*6 flight. He answered rather well the many

and varied questions presented to him during the limited
intervieweMespite the fact that he was KBB ~sa lagi Af every, Yiever.

dae oder’ os ,
properly 4“ a number of his observations remain of

4
duedt interest ai WowAe further sxplooattea; WecBueakck.

it is evident that the astronaut can perform various scien-

We
tific experiments,saW®has the abilsty capability of doing

compact
so despite the many limitations imposed.by the/Mercury capsule.

Some comments, on {col. Glenn's observations are presented

below Wettewt fy a Woy A pec wn veendetent>,’

Luminous/particles : In response to MMMKKHHX a series

of questions, Col. Glenn described the velocity field of

in, oud
the luminous particles, their brightness and outside the

; in
shadow of the spacecgaft, the coloring and sunlight and

their shape. For the velocity field, the particles al]
in

moved at presisely the same speed and all moved at precisely

the same direction except for particles coming very close

wma & Geno Sor
to the spacecraft. This occurred similarly iw all three

orbits. From the eis “Yonsiderations alone, it may
be stated that the luminous Jparticles observed by Col. Glenn

were not extraterrestial particles but were particles asso-

ciated with the spacecraft or the—teunehing—om the booster.

ate

The consistency in the observations on the three separate

orbits would require that the particles were associated

with the spacecraft itself ( I have heard that O'Keefe

AMY a, Wc Award, wed rns oul
has i i ‘ the life support system which woutd
pour vo Adu marncleo)
\uun oa ~~ "4 Se ge Col. Glenn MBH described the
Pe aed os
particleg and the luminosity. The fact that the coloring

apperens Acacmpl ew
was a yellow-green and the effeesi¥ve observational pie-

tume—deseribed.byGtenok would indicate that the particles
became fluorescent in sunlight the particles observed
in shadow were observed in the scattered light from the
spacecraft and were probably illuminated only by visible

"of the spectrum.
———<““@ihe change of angles OF the fparticles approaching
close th the HB¥ spacecraft could be attributed to the
replusive charge xxae the polarities of the particles
and spacecraft were the same. The ability of Col. Glenn
to observe the particles under improper dark adaptation

Weald indicate that an astronaut would be in a position

to carry through a series of experi§ments to investigate

comets
the physics of comments in the solar environment. Properly

daxrk~astepsed Che various gases and dust particles ejected
r while
from the spacecraft during bole? condtttetrs .and Grsaduas,

plauwed, wide unlnumnorte ancl,
the spacéeaft is in sunlight could be exemiMedby the
ws Sat pre donlecdaisred ,
astronaut-scientist ,andtiremesuate-comla_pexecexrded
f
Observations of Ai r glow and/faze : Limited by poor

dark adaptation, Col. Glenn was not able to descibe any

a
significant observations of the stenfiera or the moon. In
the absene of atmospheric scattering the sun appeared a
brillant white, but showed no signs of corona. It is of

interest, however, to consider Col. Glenn's observation
al vee ot eos six to eight degrees
ef—the twiligh a i a-s2#-t0e-eteht-desree-band
above the horizon, with a haze layer about two degrees
Although it has been speculated that

wide at the top. Tit@reetertie—oimihe

observation net
the multipike = ale of thewindow Soak cause the high

oe Wanye
angle te the horizon oftha sin plow-oncdhezetyer, this

apes oy Wa
Pay nbe unlikely because of the variatiorn§ and angle of

Moria? Woo pywnbeoe For Ufternd oucmialione oF :
view ok-reteting, the space craft, Cri Geemm raced

endAthefect that he did not see any double imagéing

ine Ki
Prabsernmg ia any of his ethex observationss further-
alot
more, he was able to indieese that the stars epservedthrough

the haze layer became less intense while changing angle

Serbedew wv
the horizon. The USSR reports by Tito also inj = pe
jp aang lour pe renved, wattle, Une 3599 Suber jo et BT

: icated a high angle‘haze layer., Heie-evident—ohet "ian

Gher investigations of the air glow and haze layerHxx

should be carried out.

Meteorology: The strikindegnadeton of lightning dis-

charges as observed by Glenn point the way to consideration
Naresrens
of an edmesterr system for monitoring lightning storms over
the earth using the meteorological satellite. The mapping
ortempomed fo

of the distribution of thunderheads tye lightning during

the night appears to be relatively straightforward, while

the similar mmpping during daylight appears feasible because}

of the short time constan6 of the lightning flashes.

Recommendations: Thateane variety of number of

sie

recommendations sppeas—+o—be—aparent following the very

successful flight of the Mercury capsule.

(1./ The astQrnautescientist carrying—cuts—the-eb-
dasa Av ghancahoro \oy
le should, publisHthder his
& domes

name (with an asboaiatdlees ie in a widely
: these first-
distributed scientific journaly.iIn this manner, tke obj
hand
servations would have wide distribution, be properly
nO

credited to the observer, and partichiexi be edited
for correctness.

~ Additional support to the astronaut in carrying
out scientific observations is warranted particularly
in consideration of Col. Glenn's attifude and interest in
carrying out such observations. Several instruments may

be added to the spacecraft,within engineering limitations,

to assist in obtaining further detail,data .

a. OT
A: Col. Glenn suggested that the followiee discussioms

would be to his inter&ést. Such follow-on discussion is

strongely recommended for further questions and exchanges , avd,
inform the astronaut ahalysis

to evaiuate-for-the-astronaut of the results of the KKXHEXX

and study of his observations.
It is i-tnedebostAmportenky” that proper dark

adaptation methods be incorporated into the spacecraft system

so that the astronaut may optimize his visual observations.
comets
g. Investigations of the physics of oouments and the

feasibility of the cepdtel " Artificial Comet" experiment”

may be carried out directly by the astronaut in a relatively

straightforward way. XMX#X These experiments should be
Tran we waluelimn WY SARL Umass
carried out as—esstecst—to the feasibility of this preagel.

en due Cae ewe Ge
xetaieda oA, cord duos ght neattony wig oc i se
6. 1S and-epticai-stuties, the photo-

Pitter Ackee on pacer panolen OW
multiplier fer-t- system# aad-e series of filters
aS orreilatede., aracnwan Sor obrcnwting “hee, ULV avalos minal
(including’ a -possible ftucreseent—piein fitter teo-—study
\py SLounvacem ce, )
: ) should be incorporated into the

spacecraft.

2 ; 5b eeast Saeial
z ble -follew! ; 2-bhe-M nited

flight, <éacfin consideration of the presentWzaplannea

manned-space-flight-program, seme—reeommendations—are-
pas, RowLA, dole Was actos CO “eG nrmprove sth. PPee Revence,
apparent—+o’ take advantage of -the—-imprerements—in—the ereg «

Lswrrdircbion ee schol
Po astrenemy. At headquarters

Ta Th VARA parma’ of. ad rogram Ghief and supporting staff inthe
Jyace—schenase-—reporting to the Qirector of Space
Sciences for scientific exploration ef in the Manned

\ S pace Cli tiga Griccam ol,

C4 Tran on cten b. t+ a committee or sub-committee be—formed
indluding such people as Rode, Abddtiuat, Minnaert, Tousey,
oa. vw
Sekera, and-so-fortk to i the scientific community

and the inthinrettivtty and,

that a branch or dividion at one of the centers

bencmaatelt as a scientific team foxr-diveesupport of the

astronaut-scientists wno-VentUr ys IntO-SYS=BOLart Spat.

WA, Nar

In reply refer to: SGA(IRGsem1)

BEB

MEMORANDUM for the Files

Subjeet: Telephone conversation with Dr. John O'Keefe
from Capo Genaveral

The following information was gathered from « eon
versation with Dr. O'isefe on Wedmesday, Fab. 21, 1962

astronaut Glenn reported having seen small
luminous partisles during his flight, They appeared
to be moving at a speed of about three or four miles
per hour. They were apparently not more than 1°3
feet away from the enpsule, and were visible by
binceular vision, Their color wes golden like
fireflies, and they seemed to be more to the
rear of the enpsule than ahead of it, though they
were visible for great distances all around, These
partieles were visible only at sunrise (not at
sunset), and the capsule seemed to be immersed in
then, They very definitely had nothing to do with
the eapsule or its movenent,

Glenn alse reported that very clesr pictures
of the stars, including Orion, hed been taken with
the UV eamera, although the capsule zotion had
caused a “wiggly” view,

Jocelyn R. Gill
Staff Scientist
Astronomy & Solar “Physies

2 Bo0- 30007 A®  - than Walton bo 0 dow

UWA eQonwmenra -

of Ses Coon G

-* UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
LOS ALAMOS SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY
(Contract W-7405-ENG-36)
P.O. Box 1663
LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

IN REPLY

aurea to: J-16-812

: i Guy, 13, 1962

Dr. Jocelyn Gill

Room 62033

Federal Office Bldg. No. 6
Headquarters, N.A.S.A.
Washington 25, D. Ce

Dear Dr. Gill: : | B | |

‘The June 29 issue of Science brought to my attention J. H. Glenn's comments

ALTON

on "The High Layer". It seemed possible that the layer he described could be
accounted for as a region of relatively large nitrogen peroxide (NOp) concentration,
and the past two weeks have been spent in checking this hypothesis. Unfortunately
I am not familiar with either photochemistry or upper atmosphere physics so the
following analysis leaves mich to be desired; the hypothesis seems tenable, however,

so I would like to bring it to your attention.

Effective path length and comparison with possible surface observations.
Referring to Figure 1, the height (H) of a point at a distance (L) from a point

on the surface of a sphere of radius (R) can be found from the formula

which has the solution

ilafsedis gerd as]

Vertical path (No. 1)

Horizontal pa
from surface

Figure 2

LOS ALAMOS SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

DATE: July 13, 1962

For the following I will assume that the concentration of absorbing molecules
in the region of interest can be described adequately by an exponential decrease
with altitude above the bottom,of the layer, hence, can be represented by

H

where Y is the scale height in the layer and H mst lie in the layer. Then the

number of molecules per cm* is found to be

N (Besssues ) -| o(H) al
om

a Y R R
N ® po e :

J [a+ Vi+y? + ey sine |
= Roo |e dy

where the integral is over the range of y desired (usually 0 >).

For a vertical view (sin © = 1) path, the solution is simply

Ni m YpPo

where po is the density at the base of the layer.

LOS ALAMOS SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

TO: Dr. Jocelyn Gill = = DATE: July 13, 1962

For a horizontal path (sin @ = 0) tangent to the base of a layer (path No. 3)

we note that y << 1 in the contributing region, hence, can get an approximate form

R

N= Rp fe? ay (7)

which has the value
nRY
N= \  b0

Here Po is the density at the base of the layer, as in equation (6).
An astronaut's view thru a layer from above would see twice the path computed

by equation (7), giving

Ng = po\ 2nRY molecules/cm® (9)

A line of sight tangent to the earth and passing thru a layer at base altitude

H (path No. 2) will have

and we note that E e x | is the density at H,, the base of the layer, which we

set equal to po as in equations (6) and (9),

RY R
N2 ™ Po = ™ Po 2a,

LOS ALAMOS SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

TO: Dr. Jocelyn Gill DATE: July 13, 1962

Assuming that Y = 7 km in an absorbing layer, we note that a surface observer

viewing a layer at an altitude near 100 km will have available the ratio

e755 (12)

An astronaut viewing along path No. 3 would have a mich greater thickness, as

Viewing thru the layer to a point near the surface and out again the enhancement

would be mich less,

Ng ee we
7 ore 11 (14)

Light received by an observer from a "point source" in space is attenuated by

oN

a factor e | where o is the absorption plus scattering cross section, giving

LOS ALAMOS SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

TO: Dr. Jocelyn Gill DATE: July 13, 1962

From the report in Science, I infer that for the layer reported,
1< oNs <5 (16)
oNg = 3 + 2 (17)

ONz = 0.22 + 0.15 (19)
Any such absorbing layer present during the day would result in rapid heating, and
reradiation in the infra-red range from whatever bands may be present. However,
the absorbers postulated below would be destroyed by photodissociation and/or
heating during the day. Hence, it is not surprising that solar spectra have not
shown such an absorbing layer.

Stellar, planetary or lunar spectra might show the existence of such a layer,

if the absorption spectrum has sufficient structure.

Setting X, Po = N,
we find the effective path length X,-

X, = 7x 10° om

Xo = 3.9 x 10°%em (starting absorption at
.100 km altitude)

LOS ALAMOS SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

TO: = Dr. Jocelyn Gill DATE: July 13, 1962

Xe = 5.4 x 10%cm (204)

X4 = 78 x 10° om (20e)

Absorbers Present in the Upper Atmosphere
Three constituents of the atmosphere near 100 km altitude absorb light through

most or all of the visible range, as would be required to get a noticeable dimming
of starlight.
They are: 1) NOs (nitrogen peroxide)
2) 9" (negative atomic oxygen ion)
3) Oo (negative molecular oxygen ion)
Of these, I found no cross section data for Os. For oe Massey (Negative Ions;
Cambridge U. Press) gives curves showing absorption cross sections starting at
5620 A and approaching ~ 4 x io” cm/ion in the region } < 5000 A. There is

very little structure (only the onset at 5620 A).

From equation (17) we find that

x

could explain the observed attenuation.

For an effective path length of 5.4 x 107 cm, we have po = (1.4 + 1) x 102°
negative ions/cm°.

Since the daytime free electron concentration in the E layer is 1.5 x 10° and
the night value is ~ 10* it seems hard to believe such a high nighttime concentration

of negative atomic ions.

LOS ALAMOS SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

TO: Dr. Jocelyn Gill -7= DATE: July 13, 1962

Nitrogen peroxide has been extensively studied and two papers were found
which gave absorption coefficients in the visible region of the spectrum. Wiley
and Foord (Proceedings of the Royal Society Al35, 174 (1932) give a coefficient

which I convert to
-19 2
o~1-3%x 10° cm*/molecule

depending on the wavelengths selected by their filters (the lower value was for
the range 4900 < 2» < 5250 A).

Hall and Blacet (J. Chem. Phys. 20, 1745 (1952) give a curve obtained with
a Cary spectrophotometer having ~ 5 A resolution. Maximum absorption occurs in
the range 3500 < 2 < 4500 A and drops to ~ 1/2 the peak value at 5000 A. They
give no data for longer wavelengths. I convert their absorption coefficients to
~ 6x 10"° cm*/molecule at 4000 A, and ~ 3 x 10°** cm?/molecule at 5000 A.
Structure produces changes in cross section of ~2 x 10> em*/molecule at wave-
lengths separated by a few angstroms.

Taking an average value of 4 x 10°>° em@/molecule, we find

Ns (NOo) Bd metre = (7-5 <= 5) x 1026 molecules/cm
; x 10

and using X3 = 5.4 x 107cm

Po = (1.4 + 1) x 10** molecules/cm®

LOS ALAMOS SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

TO: Dr. Jocelyn Gill oe DATE: July 13, 1962

Readily detectable structure would produce variations of oN, and oNe of

about half the attenuation figure given in equations (18) and (19) which is
near the threshold of detectability.

I have not yet found an author who estimates the concentration of NQ or
NOs ‘in the atmosphere; Bates and Nicolet discuss the reactions which lead to it
in the book "The Earth as a Planet", edited by G. P. Kuiper (Volume II of
The Solar System).

Nicolet calculates the photodissociation time as 200 seconds during daytime,
and shows the concentration mst be so low that no effect on solar observations
would be found.

As a general conclusion, it seems to me more likely that NOs would be
responsible for an absorbing layer, generated perhaps with the aid of downward
diffusion of NO to higher pressure regions favoring oxidation to NOs. The
color suggested by Glenn fits very well, as may be quickly verified by looking

thru the vapor space above concentrated nitric acid.

Experimental Proposal.

Ideally, one could ask for the absorption coefficient as a function of wave-
length (over a very wide spectral range) and time after sunset on the air volume
investigated.

It seems possible to get very useful data with a relatively simple experiment
perhaps possible of inclusion in one of the manned orbital flights.

Using a slow-speed movie camera, photograph the star field and such planets
(including the moon) as opportunity permits, with approximately a 10° field of

view and enough exposure to permit photometric measurements as the light sources

LOS ALAMOS SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

TO: Dr. Jocelyn Gill DATE: July 13, 1962

"pass through" the atmosphere, especially the absorbing layer (perhaps such
sequences already exist). At the expected orbital height, I estimate a 7 km
thick layer would subtend ~ 1/2 degree and a given light source would "pass
through" it in eight seconds. Attempts to derive a density distribution would
require a fair number of points in the "1-1/2 or 2 degrees" (divide by 3 7)
so a frame interval near one per second seems desirable. If operated continuously
thru the night passage approximately 100 feet of 16 mm film would be required
per passage.

As a crude attempt at spectroscopy, color filters could be used on some of
the sequences, without too serious light loss. For example, a Corning Noe 5030

or No. 5543 filter would limit exposure to the wavelength range of maximum

absorption by NOs (light loss may be considerable) and a Corning No. 3480 filter

would limit exposure to the wavelength range where O absorption is negligible.

Relatively broad band interference filters would be useable on the brighter
stars and planets. Direct visual observation through such filters would also be
useful, especially if photography is impractical and the astronaut tries to
reproduce any attenuation noted by neutral density filters in combination with
the same filters and stars used in space.

Photometric observations of some of the "intense" airglows mentioned by
various authors would also be very instructive. The increased intensity due to
external tangential viewing would help a great deal, and precise height de-
terminations could be made.

It may be useful to ask Glenn and Carpenter to reproduce the dimming (as well

as memory allows) by narrow strips of neutral density filters against the star

LOS ALAMOS SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
LOS ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

T0: Dr. Jocelyn Gill i, DATE: July 13, 1962

field they saw, or to compare the intensity and color changes noted with that

thru an absorbing cell containing NOp.. The required thickness is readily available.

Acknowledgments

The author has benefited greatly from discussions with several associates,
especially as regards references to sources of upper atmospheric and photochemical
data.

Dr. Robert Sherman has assisted in location of data on the absorption cross
section of NOs. Dr. Arthur Cox suggested a number of references and confirmed the
author's belief that reasonably accurate photometric observations could be made on
photographs of a star field. Dr. LIeston Miller has emphasized the importance of
even crude control of the wavelengths responsible for exposure. All of the men
mentioned above are members of the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory.

Dr. J. A. O'Keefe of the Theoretical Division of the Goddard Space Flight Center
generously discussed the observations of J. Glenn and S. Carpenter, and my hypo-
thesis regarding NOs absorption. He has referred me to the excellent articles in

"The Earth as a Planet" and encouraged my submission of this letter.

Future Work

I would, of course, be interested in your opinion, and that of other experts in
the field, of the above hypothesis. If your group recommends inclusion of such
observations on a future flight, we may be able to help on some points in data
acquisition. I am sure the project would deserve review and control by a panel
of men such as Bates and Nicolet «

Respectfully submitted,

Jit Wan

BOB E. WATT
BEW: jo Assoc. J-Div. Ldr.
Distribution: and Grp. Lldar. J-16
1 - Dr. Jocelyn Gill,

Wi, ai)

In reply refer to: SGC:ML:ml
#1. February 1962

MEMORANDUM

Subject: Possible Scientific Visual, Information
Obtained by J. H. Glenn

1. ‘Two (2) interesting observations were reported in the Press,
as described by Colonel Glenn during the MA-6 flight. It is of
vital interest to obtain a more detailed description of these observa-
tions in order that the accuracy and the details of what was observed
may be properly recorded for scientific evaluation. ‘The two obser-
vations were:

(a) The report of the great number of luminous particles
apparently travelling with the spacecraft at Friendship-7 sunrise;
and

(>) The altitudes or angular view of the upper linb
of the atmosphere. —

2. The thousands of luminous particles were described as
travelling with the spacecraft. It is important that Glem describe
in detail precisely the cbservational characteristics wmder which he
saw the particles in orfer to obtain an estimate of the brightness
of these particles. The questions that we would like answered are
what was the basis of Glenn's determination ef that the particles
were actually travelling with the spacecraft and whether this condi-
tion persisted on subsequent orbits. In addition, the geometry of
the observations should be further described in order to derive the
geometric distribution of the particles relative to the spacecraft's
window. (The precise observational time and the position of sum-
light luminosity can readily be determined from the orbit of the
spacecraft itself). ‘These particles may be geocentric in origin
and may be suspended in the atmosphere. There are at least two
hypothesis for explaining pariicles travelling with the spacecraft.
The intensity compared to starlight should be determined also as
this information is of importance in determining further information
about the absolute number and cross-sections of the particles and may
relate to the dust content of zodiacal light as well as the gegen-
gchein.

é

* NASA HEADQUARTERS ROUTING. SLIP

ci ea

APPROVAL
CONCURRENCE

2 he, INFORMATION
INVESTIGATE AND ADVISE

NOTE AND FORWARD

| gfe Cae high aS onl al

a y PER REQUEST
ae Are ad ~ RECOMMENDATION

SIGNATURE

es : area

REMARKS:

NAME (if necessary)

NASA Form 26 (Rev. July 1959) * U.S, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1959 OF —513026

In reply refer to: SGC:ML:m1L

21 February 1962

MEMORANDUM

Subject: Possible Scientific Visual Information
Obtained by J. H. Glenn

1. Two (2) interesting observations were reported in the Press,
as described by Colonel Glenn during the MA-6 flight. It is of
vital interest to obtain a more detailed description of these observa-
tions in order that the accuracy and the details of what was observed
may be properly recorded for scientific evaluation. The two obser-
vations were:

(a) The report of the great number of luminous particles
apparently travelling with the spacecraft at Friendship-7 sunrise;
and

(b) The altitudes or angular view of the upper Limb
of the atmosphere.

2. The thousands of Luminous particles were described as
travelling with the spacecraft. It is important that Glenn describe
in detail precisely the observational characteristics under which he
saw the particles in order to obtain an estimate of the brightness
of these particles. The questions that we would like answered are
what was the basis of Glenn's determination of that the particles
were actually travelling with the spacecraft and whether this condi-
tion persisted on subsequent orbits. In addition, the geometry of
the observations should be further described in order to derive the
geometric distribution of the particles relative to the spacecraft's
window. (The precise observational time and the position of sun-
Light Luminosity can readily be determined from the orbit of the
spacecraft itself). These particles may be geocentric in origin
and may be suspended in the atmosphere. There are at least two
hypothesis for explaining particles travelling with the spacecraft.
The intensity compared to starlight should be determined also as
this information is of importance in determining further information
about the absolute number and cross-sections of the particles and may
relate to the dust content of zodiacal light as well as the gegen-
schein.

ae Ss

In a similar manner, the observations of the horizon and the
extent of the atmosphere are of great interest in determining the
distribution of various atmospheric characteristics. The precise
lighting conditions regarding the position of the sun and the
intensity of the outer edge of the horizon as observed by Colonel
Glenn may be used in the consideration of what Glenn actually saw.
For example, he may have seen the limit of the atmosphere (based
on the 8 degree limb described in the press, the atmosphere
apparently extended to over 150 Km) by Rayleigh scattering; he
may have seen the airglow; or he may have seen the MIE scattering
from dust in the atmosphere. The true limiting angle of his
observations and a graph of the intensity drop-off with angle from
the earth should be obtained in addition to the Lighting conditions.

It is recommended that this information be obtained from
Colonel Glenn as soon as possible.

Vifawent 7 Gan,

Maurice Dubin

Head, Aeronomy Program
Geophysics & Astronomy Programs
Office of Space Sciences

Fellows Clark

DRAFT OF NOTE ON THE SCIENTIFIC OBSERVATIONS

Toward the end of the flight, between 16 hr and 47 min (UT) and 17 hr
and 03 min (UT), 24 May 1962, Lt. Car. Carpenter made a series of observations
on a luminous band visible around the horizon. The most decisive observation
was made with an airglow filter supplied by Mr. Lawrence Dunkelman of Goddard
Space Flight Center. The filter transmits a narrow band of wavelengths,
approximately 11 Angstromswide at the half power point and centered at the
wavelength of the strongest radiation of the night airglow, namely 5577 Angstroms
The filter cut out all other light, but passed the light of the.luminous band,
which is thus identified as the 5577 layer.

Lt. Cdr. Carpenter noted that the layer was very bright. He found
that Phecda\ Ursae Majoris, magnitude 2.5 was lost to sight at the brightest
part of the layer. Assuming that the image of Phecda occupies about 1 syuare

8

” ar
minute of arc on the retina, or 8.18 x 10 steradians, Assuming that a star of

magnitude 0.8 yields 107° lux (1umens{m* ) we find that the brightness of the

4

layer is about 3 lumeng{m° )(steradian) or 3 x 10°" stilbs. This is equivalent

iS
to about 4 x 104 ereg(n® )(steradian |, taking the least mechanical eyuivalent

of light as 1.61 x 10 watts per lumen for 5560 A as per the AIP handbook. It
is about 50 times as bright as a white surface illuminated by moonlight.
The angular height of the layer was found in 5 different ways:

1. By direct estimate - 8° to 10°.

2. By noting that it is approximately twicé the height of
the twilight layer. Lt. Cdr. Carpenter estimated the height of the twilight
layer as 5 sun diameters, which means 2-1/2 degrees, hence the height of the
5577 layer would be 5°.

3. ‘By observation of the star Phecda (%U Ma) as it passed

the middle of the luminous band.

4. By noting the time when Phecda was halfway from the
luminous band to the horizon.
5. By noting the fact that when the cross of the reticle
Fe ners foydal Cae
is set diagonally, <& just covers the distance from the band to the horizon.

By method 3, we make use of the time of passage through the middle

of the layer. This point is marked by a reference to a mark on the telemetering.

ant conversation wah Er Code, acpenter

whieh—sre—net—yet avattable , set, By careful timing of the capsule tape, ait
appears to have been very close to a 4h jn 295, capsule elapsed time, i.e.,
1650mg5 5. UT. For this instant the capsule coordinates as interpolated from
the Woomera tracking data, were - longitude = 127° 40:0

latitude = -18° 49:8

height = 226 kilometers

At this moment, the line of sight to y Ursae Majoris was tangent to

the layer of maximum thickness of 5577. The angular zenith distance of ¥ U Ma
at this time was found to be 101°#2'. A line of this zenith distance is tangent
to a spherical shell of the proper radius which is 137 kilometers below the
capsule or 89 kilometers above sea level. Accordingly, this observation should
be interpreted as indicating that the densest part of the 5577 layer is ata

height of 89 kilometers, which is in good agreement with rocket measures.

The lower limit of the visible light appeared to be near 78 kilometers;

b aw i a dele a as/sighificght, ‘since a ings she 11
is /exp¢c to/dimfnish’ gradvally do ward iy apparent’ brightness, shen At {t is

afebsnrf pry sho.

lI TLL

The filter observation on the airglow was made at 174 o2™ 6, UP.

Sunrise was observed at about 1™ later, while the observation was going on.

It follows that the airglow is visible even when the twilight band is very
strong. An attempt to observe it in the day is certainly indicated. In this
connection, it should be noted that Capt. V. I. Grissom reported a grayish band
at the top of the blue sky layer. (Results of the Second U. S. Manned Suborbital
Space Flight, NASA, GPO (1961). He remembers this layer as narrow and grayish

in color, representing an actual increase in intensity. He pointed out the
approximate position of the layer on one of Lt. Cdr. Carpenter's photographs

at the height of 1.7 degrees above the horizon. Grissom may have observed the
daytime airglow.

Carpenter did not note any structures, either vertical or horizontal,
in this layer. He did not observe it completely around the horizon but believes iA
to be continuous all the way. It does not appear possible that this layer can
actually absorb starlight. Any layer at this level capable of absorbing a
‘abtoedbie fraction of the light (25% or more) would also scatter light strongly;
it would therefore be a very prominent object on the daylight side. In fact, it
is not definitely visible on the photographs of the day side. This is entirely
in agreement with Lt. Cdr. Carpenter's impression, namely that the decreased
visibility of stars passing through the layer was a contrast effect.

A remarkable feature of this observation is the discrepancy between
the eye estimates of 8%10° for the altitudes above the horizon, on the one
hand, and the results of timed observations on the other. The latter indicates
altitudes of 2° to 3°. The latter are clearly correct; for example, Carpenter
noted that when one arm of his reticle was at an angle of 45°, it covered the
space between the horizon and the bright band. The crossarm is 1.21 centimeters

in length and it is a distance of 26.2 centimeters from the astronaut's eye.

At an angle of 45°, it subtends a vertical angle of about 2°.6.

It thus appears that there is a strong illusion which exaggerates
angles near the horizon, and which was evidently also present in MA-6, since
Lt. Col. Glenn also reports 7° to 8° as the height of the luminous band. The
illusion is perhaps comparable to the well-known illusion which makes the moon
seem larger near the horizon.

Carpenter also noticed and photographed the Glenn effect. He reports
white objects resembling snowflakes, seen at sunrise on all three orbits.
However, he also saw these objects 7 minutes after the first sunrise and again
43 minutes after sunrise; and 2", 11™, 237, 26", 36 ana 45™ after the second
sunrise. It is thus quite clear that they are not related to sunrise, except
perhaps in the sense of being most easily visible then.

Carpenter managed to photograph a few of these particles. Some of them
were very considerably brighter than the moon, which was then very near the first
quarter. At this time, the moon is about -10; the particles may have been be-
tween -12.5 magnitude (10 x brighter than the moon) and -15 magnitude (100 x
brighter than the moon). The second is considered more likely, in view of the
appearance of the full moon (-12.5) as show on MA-6 photographs. At -15, the
particle brightness is consistent with centimeter size snowflakes. The
particles were verbally described by Carpenter as between 1 mm and 1 cm in size,
and having a strong visual resemblance to snowflakes.

Shortly before reentry, just at sunrise, Carpenter performed the de-

cisive experiment of hitting the capsule walls with his hand. The blows promptly

resulted in the liberation of large numbers of particles. It is thus clear that
ia ?

at least those particles observed in the MA-6 flight emanated from the capsule.
The possibility that the inset lie might be dye marker or shark re-

pellant, both of which are green and both of which are exposed to the vacuun,

was considered by Mr. Frank M. Crichton, NASA capsule inspector. Crichton had

tests made which demonstrated that neither material tended to escape from the

package in a vacuum. The possibility that it might represent small particles
from the fiberglass insulator was also considered; in view of the smallness of

the fibers, it appears likely that they would have been blown away at once,

like the Mylar confetti. The dynamic pressure of 1 dyne m-

nN Yan4
am
remove at once ,weighing less than about 10 to 100 milligrams om”; which

is sufficient to

corresponds to a thickness of the order of 0.3 to 1 millimeter for most
ordinary substances.

As mentioned in the MA-6 report, there are two plausible sources
within the capsule for these particles.

(1) Snow formed by condensation of steam
from the life-support system.

(2) Small particles of dust, waste, bits
of insulation and other sweepings.

The latter are very conspicuous in a zero g environment, when there
is nothing to keep them down; it is found to be extraordinarily difficult to
free the interior of the capsule of such material. Undoubtedly, the exterior
parts of the capsule which are exposed to the environment will contain these
things, and they undoubtedly play a part in the Glenn effect. In particular,
a corkscrew shaped piece observed by Carpenter was probably a turning or
perhaps a raveled piece of insulation.

On the other hand, there is considerable evidence which points to
snow as the source of the majority of the material. In the first place, water
is dumped out of the capsule in far larger quantities than any other substance.
In the second place, the material looked like snowflakes both to Glenn and to
Carpenter. In the third place, the freyuency with which the Glenn effect is
reported by Carpenter appears to be correlated with the temperature of the
exterior of the eoniaiin ae recorded by thermocouples in the shingles. The

temperature was always lowest at night, falling to temperatures of -35°C just

before sunrise, and rising to plus 10°C just after sunrise. During the second
day, the temperatures were lower, reaching about 226°C during portions of the day.
From about rie 20", CET, on the second period of sunlight, the temperatures were
higher, ind only one particle is mentioned.

{ the effect is indeed due to condensation of moisture, then the
broad end ol' the capsule is a more likely source than the narrow end, because
the temperatures were 20°C or more higher at the narrow end.

The condensation probably took place inside the capsule, rather than
outside, because even at the lowest recorded shingle temperature, around -50°C,
the vapor pressure over ice amounts to about 0.039 millibars. Although this
pressure is very low, it greatly exceeds the ambient pressure at the lowest
capsule altitudes. Accordingly, it is not possible that snowflakes should form
under these circumstances, even though it is true that the capsule must be
surrounded by an expanding atmosphere of water vapor.

If the water-vapor expands freely, ‘it is clear that the pressure ata
distance of 1 meter from a hole 1 cm in diameter will be of the order of
1/10,000 of the pressure at the hole. Hence it is fairly clear that the pressure
inside the capsule will be far higher than the outside pressure, in spite of the
presence of 18 one-centimeter apertures. Hence condensation within the capsule
is more likely than condensation outside. It is noteworthy that no formation
of rime was noticed either on the window or on the balloon string. It is con-
sidered most likely that the particles of the Glenn effect are snowflakes formed
in the capsule, between the cabin bulkhead and the heat shield by the steam
exhaust from the life-support system. It is suggested that they escape into

space through the porte, being driven outward by the expanding vapor. Note

that at 02 52 47, Carpenter noted a particle moving faster than he. At 02 50 00,

he planned to observe sunrise and was facing forward. This particle was thereby

probably seen east of him. Most of the particles are seen behind him and falling

back. This supports the idea that the particles probably are pushed outward by
the expanding steam from the capsule, before they begin to stream backward. It
is probable that many of the particles lodge on the outside of the capsule,
since Carpenter is quite sure, from the direction of streaming across the
window, that the particles came from a point near where the knocking was done.

Carpenter obtained two excellent photographs of the sun when just

4h v

Flectias of i

above the horizon. These photographs plainly show the flattened, sausage-
Carpenter notes that whet he sau /55 IKE Hie phiteyragnds chow wth the Ekreption 4 some VE

shaped form photographed earlier by Glenn. Calculations of this theoretical

res

shape are being made at this time for comparison with the astronaut observations.
The flattened shape is due to the fact that the lower portion of the sun's disk
is seen through layers which refract the light much more strongly than those
through which the upper part is seen. As a conseyuence, the whole disk appears
flattened. A similar, but much smaller flattening has long been known to be
observable from the ground. A part of the interest of this phenomenon comes
from the fact that at great distances, as at the moon, the effect of this re-

fraction is to make the sun appear as a red ring of light around the earth.

Nhe

SCIENTIFIC DEBRIEFING
June 1, 1963
(First Experiment - Flashing Light)

é

John McKee: One of the first questions that I have regards some estimates
you made of the beacon distance. Were those based entirely on the knowledge
of how bright it was from previous aircraft training or do-you feel there |

was some Other distance cue somehow involved in the test.

dates: No. If I had no previous experience on the light, I don't deisebe ts

I would have had any possibility of telling how far it was except that on

that second night pass after ejecting the light. Spanieiths the sun was

shining on it as I saw this steady glow, up to about my level on the orbital
path. At that time I had a little bit more depth perception on it and could

seem to note the proper drift on it. That was the first time that I saw it.“
Other than that, it was pretty well related back to what I saw in the planetarium’

and to the experiments we did on the aircraft when we had radar ‘measurementss oe

McKee: - At the time you deployed the light you said you felt it deploy; did»
you notice the pitch rate? -- or what was the sensation? #3

Cooper: No, I didn't notice any rate as such. I could really feel it in

the spacecraft and to me it felt just like there were doors banging open

down there as it departed and just a little bit of a jolt through the  ¢

spacecraft. It was a good solid thump when it took off.

Scientific Debriefing Be | on.
Bill Armstrong: Actually Gordo, it turned out, it gave you about a half of |

a degree per second in the opposite direction. This was very apparent on the
postflight record. You can see your thruster action when you start to pitch
: up and then as you come right to the bottom of the curve you can see this
, little blip on your rate; and then the attitude started back'the other way.
: it It was real definite. Something on the order of a half of & degree per secures a ES
or & little more. It was real definite where it occurred. Well what it does :
il is start your pitch back the other way. If you remember, you never did use
| any thruster action to go back in the other direction, to pitch back down after }
"you deployed. You went to cage - to ‘Petroattitude and the attitudes just go a
if and start back over. It wes real clear on the records where 1t went /out. (17

' Fs , bs -

Shepard: Say, in regard to the first question, do you think because you

t
had the earth as background you could judge distance, because you had earth es aa B
as background? ‘

1 Cooper: I think possibly so. Of course it's like an airplane when it's |

a considerable distance out. It is almost impossible to judge the distance - |

i . away. You can talk yourself into believing it is almost any distance from ™ = Sunt tc :

youe And when it gets on in closer you really have a bit more -eknninkiind te |
on ite I did feel that I had almost judged the distance on that first try. 2 os |
In fact 3 didn't even believe that was it when I first saw it. I couldn't o ;

|) think of anything else that it could be but it was just solid light. And 4},

as it turns out looking back now on it, I-am sure this was because the sun : a

x

Scientific Debriefing -3- '
had not completely set; I'm sure my retro pack area was in the sunlight.

I'm sure that is what I saw glowing,--was the sun reflecting off of it.
Although I had not seen it from previous viewing on the day side or the

night side.

McKee: When you didn't see it on the first night side, did you have any

personal feeling that the light wasn't flashing? Did you correct your

attitude when you didn't see it or did you have any feeling what the problem

was? é

' Cooper: I just don't have any idea. I kept doubting myself. This was
the first time of course that I had ever tried aligning to small end forward,
a 180° yaw as wélcall it and of course aligning on the night side. I began
to doubt that I was aligned properly. I went to the star charts and rechecked
and found in fact that I was not quite aligned correctly at first. But then
I did double check and found that I was --- I'm sure several times thru the
night I was aligned exactly on and in using the horizon line just about in
the middle of the window even moving up and down almost invariably. I Just |

don't have any idea why I didn't see it.

Bill Armstrong: You .did change your attitudes? That was one of the things
I wanted to Know. Do you remember at the beginning of the night phase, aid
you first start looking low and then toward the end look high or did you

ne

just sort of scan the area or what?

Scientific Debriefing : -l-

Cooper: Well first I started trying to get my 180° yaw point. This is

not the easiest thing in the world to get on the night side, and particularly
when you have to go into your whan obaitte 50 minutes ahead of where you had
normally been used to using them. I: finally did find star patterns that gave
me the proper orientation. I was using, around 15 to: 20 degrees pitched down,
I was just keeping the horizon in the sort of bottom part of the window and
I got around this area, I then tried varying the attitude up and down to.

look for the light.

Shepard: You mentioned’ in your report that,--you talked about approximately. s:

25 minutes after you caged your gyros, that you saw a lot of lightning
particularly in that area. |

Cooper: - Well, this is one possibility that there was a slight compromise

to the light. Particularly on the first night side there ina considerable
large lightning down there. I found concentrations of large tnvideratornl : :
right up in there and saw quite a lot of light ‘flashing through fairly

large areas. I still don't believe that even on the other night side, in a
spite of these I stall could see the light even with this as a background. f ae
It is really not an excuse for not seeing it and I really honestly can't =

say why I didn't. I had begun to doubt that it. was really flashing.

McKee: Was the moon ever a problem? |

Scientific Debriefing le -5=

Cooper: The moon was probably ideal. It was down to about a third moon.

It was a very distinctive moon when you could see it but it wasn't causing
the great amount of light that a full moon would have caused. I could see
the glow on the ground, on the: clouds and on the land, from the moon. | It
was not enough to obliterate all the stars, or when the light was sort of in
the direction of the moon. It didn't matter. Q. Was the Light ever close Gj
to the moon? A. No, the light was never close to the moon. The moon came
up just at the last part of the night. It was never close to the moon
beceuse the moon.was just coming,«= the moon came up just at the last part :
of the night. It had not been up very long before, before I‘ began to get 3

daylight ° yp

Bill Armstrong: This is a real puzzler. We looked at the temperature traces
in the retro pack area; they ran cooler, this flight. Around 60 or 62 degréani
Bill Carmines said that they had actually flashed the light at this lower |
temperatures without any problem. He talked to Langley people and he says
that if the light had failed to work the first time it would have never
warmed enough later in the flight to start flashing. It is hard to visualize ithe
it not having been working ne: first time and then worked the second time et *

Do you think your attitude Seine could you tell any difference in your :

attitude the second night when you saw the light. In yaw as compared with

the first do you think you had your yaw pinned down better then?

Scientific Debriefing oY 2
Cooper: Well, not really. As I went into both night sides I could pretty '

well estimate 180° yaw. The first night side I was not completely around

I started yawing around and night was suddenly upon me and I wasn’t quite in
the full 180° position, so I did have to hunt for ‘the 180° position a little
bit. On the second night side after I ejected the light, I was already in

my 180° position before going into the night side.

Mercer: How'‘high above or below horizon line or window did you look for light?

In other words how far down or how high did you go with your pitch attitude?

- Cooper: On the first night side I allowed it to drift very, very slowly and ©
changed them as I needed to, “very very slightly to keep my yaw on 180° and '

it varied back and forth very slightly. But I went all the way down to ‘
7
where the horizon would fill the whole window and up to where I just barely

hed the horizon in sight. a a : 4 2

Bill Armstrong: Did you see it come right away when you looked on the second

night?

aN

Cooper: I just barely got into the night.

Bill Armstrong: In other words you picked it up right away? y

A SS Seana Sut

Bt
--8 Soe ne ae vosnbiocetcesieeeatitica

rs
Fe
mar

Scientific Debriefing -T-
Cooper: Almost. Almost as it began to get dark. Of course it gets dark

just like that. Zam it gets dark. I had just,--it was dark earth background /
and as I say my first feeling on seeing it was definitely coming from below

very very slowly. As I watched it was getting higher in my line of sight to the . |
earth. In other words as I was holding the earth on a fixed place.on the

window this was coming up. It was coming up in relation to me, and was

finally up to my level. And as I saw it coming up it was solid light. My
first though on it was thet it looked just like the missiles that I have seen |
launched at night from Cape Canaveral; when you're flying at night hte a ne
altitude and see them launched. It didn't have the same reel des it was

very very bright, and solid and ‘seemed to becoming up.

Bill Armstrong: That is something else we checked into. It would have been;

impossible for this light to have been steady for you. It is necessary to

fully charge the condenser and then get a quick discharge.

Cooper: That's why I think it mst have been the sunshine on it from behind.
Because of the altitude we were both at, the sun would be shining on it at
thats) points: Thad “Sdmt pewe Aeberkie night side.’ Even though it was dark
if I had yawed around to nero yaw it would have been in the bright sun.

Bill Armstrong: Was it above the horizon when Se saw ab flashing or- was it.

still in the haze layer, or what?

Scientific Debriefing B=

Cooper: It was just still slightly below the horizon. It had come up almost

~ to the horizon. It had been a fair amount below it when I first saw it. In »

fact I was pitched down to about =34° and I saw it towards the bottom part ©
of the window when I first picked it UP By the time ti got up to where oh
was maybe 15 degrees higher (in nielation to me and ny line of sight), I
suddenly saw it flashing.

Bill Armstrong: That's just where it would have been. If would have been

just coming to the horizon.
John Boynton: Was this predominantly above the horizon?

Bill Armstrong: In the first orbit, no. On the first orbit it is very’ low.
That is why he might not have seen it the initial part of the orbit. Somewhere
about 20 or 30 minutes thru thennight side, it passes through the horizon

and then it goes about 25 or 30 degrees high. It goes through a fairly

large angle change at first, and the further out it gets of course the
smaller’the angle change is. The second night after deployment just about :

at sunset it starts up through the horizon and then all ote time. during the

. Becond night phase it is above the horizon. Then the thira one is above the

horizon all of the time.

Jobn: If he is at zero roll what is the maximm visual angle of sight through

the window? |

Scientific Debriefing : =9-

Bill Armstrong: You get a 30 degree angle view through ‘the window. From
- the top of the window to the bottom, 303 . You can see over an elevation.

variation of 30 degrees.

John: How far would he have to pitch down?

Bill Armstrong: He would probably have to be below retroattitude. He had

to almost have all earth in the window. Probably about 30 degrees.

Cooper: I had a:few comments that I made on the onboard tape about the light:
"T am at last daylight going into dark" I had been looking for that flashing -
beacon. "This light in sight is below me. It is quite a brownish reddish |
brown and considerable altitude above the ground." In other words I was
convinced it was not a light down on the ground but it had movement. I
mentioned several other items here such as this light being visible among

the stars. "The light is flashing, now. It is the light. It is quite
bright and quite discernible. It appears to be about 10 to’ 12 miles away.
I'm keeping it exactly in the window. About the prose ofa second eae
star now." and that time was 05:11:34. "The light is still in sight in the
center of the window." oa ; ; \

Bill Armstrong: Did you, --according to the voice tape it indicates that you
may. have vewed away & little bit then and chsh. came back. Is that right?“ |

Did 7 yaw away and then come right back to it?

- Sclentific Debriefing

Cooper: Just once.

Bill Armstrong: Did you do it twice or just once?
Cooper: No, I kept it in sight for quite awhile and then yawed away from it

and then came right back.

Cooper: At 05:13:40 I made some comments on the Milky Way and various |

things and at 05:16:35 the light was still in sight. Thunderstorms were

é

in under it at the moment but it was still quite distinctive. And this is !

at 05:18:05.

Bill Armstrong: What brightness do you think you need if you are going to

PA

try to acquire some target in space.

Cooper: It was very distinctive both times. At this brightness where it
was on the second night side after the ejection, both times it was very
distinctive more than the brightness of course, it was the flashing. On

the third night side it was extremely faint but the flashing allowed me: to

pick it up. I wouldn't have been able to see it the third night but for the

' flashing.

Bill Armstrong: Do you think that either at the initial acquisition of the

thing or even toward the end of the second night phase the brightness would

be sufficient if you would be trying to locate a rendezvous target?

t

AERPs Aa ee Se taes aor aera Teac ations aaa es 387 louie

eS BBD

SE

Scientific Debriefing -11-
Cooper: I think so. I think with that brightness, if you know approximately

where to look for the thing and with it flashing, you certainly ought to be

able to find it pretty readily.

Day: . Do you think similar agoeiinenta should be carried on or is this
sufficient?
Cooper: I think this probably shows us what we>really want to see. I think
there is going to be problem like there is in aircraft. As you move in closer
to it you are going to have to have something that gives @ little bit more
capability to obtain distance from it at the time; such as perhaps two lights —
that you could range on; like navigation lights on aircraft.

Question: Were internal lights on in the night observations?

Cooper: On most night sides I had all the lights down completely and used

just the glove lights to read.critical items.

Bill Armstrong: On the third night phase you say you had to do a good bit ;
of searching. , Were you searching the entire third night, and when aid you
first see it? «+,

Cooper: Slightly past the middle of the night. I think that on the third

night side the brightness was such that it was sheer accident that I found it.

X

If you just happen to pass it in the scan pattern you might see it flashing.

7

It would, however, be very easy to miss.

‘Scientific Debriefing =]2=

Bill Armstrong: You feel brightness suitable for a rendezvous target would

‘be something on the order of second or third magnitude.

Cooper: Yes.

Bill: That's one of the main things we wanted to find out. Does the brightness

of the second night look about right? Was the third night too dim?

Cooper: Yes, the third one is getting a little too dim.

ih Bill: Do you think you have got to have good sighting information.to pick

these up even with bright light?

Cooper: Well, it is a pretty big sky at night up there and there are a lot’ \:

of bright stars. I think you're going to have to have some sighting data

to get within a reasonable cone area to hunt. for it. . :

McKee: What about the flash frequency rate?

Cooper: I think the flash rate could be cut down. I think you could maybe

j
halve the flash rate.’ I would rather see it twice as bright and see it flash

half as often., A flash rate, even one every two seconds is still distinctive.

Maybe not quite as distinctive as the one per second, but it still. would

attract your attention.

Bill: How about the deploy marks?

Scientific Debriefing -13-
Cooper: Those deploy marks worked real well. They were excellent for getting

in retroattitude also. They position your head to a real positive position.

Bill: We have read the attitude records pretty carefully. You were between —
; 20 end 22 degrees, so you were right in there. Do you think the window
. smudges, the discoloration of the window, might have had significant effect?

Do you think it produced enough attenuation to cause any trouble?

Cooper: Actually I tried and tried to ‘note how much attenuation you get at

night. It's just a few seconds until the time you get dark-adapted; I thought

you became dark adapted very rapidly, and I didn't see or note any san attenuation.
I am sure there was some as there was definitely smudge layers there. But.

it didn't seem to bee... The bright stars sure seemed bright.

Bill Armstrong: © Did you actually see the light against the ground?

t

Cooper: Yes. I made this comment here that I even saw it against the

thunderstorm.

3

John Boynton: Gordo, you talked about the flash rate. The flash rate in

‘your debriefing might have been slightly below a flash per second.

Cooper: I did it on the tape. I counted off here on the tape so. you could
get it off the tape. I counted 1,2,3,45;5,6,7- It seemed to me that it was.

slightly slower than one flash per second. |

- Selentific Debriefing
Question:. What did it check out?

Carmines: 62 (flashes per minute).

Bill: Did you make attempts to see it on the day side?

Cooper: I sure did. I never saw it then.

Armstrong: It should have been closer on the day side than in the night
portion. It came in closer and started out away some time during the first
day pass’ Before ‘you picked it up it had started out again. It should
have been in to about two miles sometime during the first day side.
“Cooper: At first I was on. 180 degrees yaw, and allowed it to drift off.’ I.

didn't find it, but before I got to the next night side, I brought yaw back

to 180 degrees. There was a possibility I missed it there.
Did the flash seem very consistant? Did the brightness vary?
Cooper: Yes, it seemed to be very consistant.

Carmines: Did you see it tumble?

Cooper: I couldn't tell any tumbling.

Carmines: I'm sure it was tumbling.

Scientific Debriefing o15-

Bill: The spread of light isn't too great.
Cooper: It is pretty hard to judge the light level.
Mercer: Did.you see the stars during this day?

Cooper: Not this particular orbit. No I didn't.

(Second Experiment - Balloon Drag)

Day: Mr. Carmines will you give us a quick run-down onthe balloon experiment

failure?

Carmines: I talked with Instrumentation people and srieareines agreed that
we really don't know what happened. We had one relay actuate. There are
several possibilities, To me the most likely place of trouble is the final
plug. The pins are on the pigtail and in putting this together you can bend
these pins and get a mi autlameants We checked the plug and in this case the

‘pin is near the case and if it bent it could ground.

Bill: The squibs were in parallel and a@ number of tests showed either one é

of the squib would fire the latch. The most probable cause is in the circuitry
(Discussioncon Ground Light Observation)

Bill Armstrong: How hard was it to pick up the light when you first started.
Did you have trouble picking up this ground light at all?

Scientific Debriefing - 216--
Cooper: No. It was just a bit further to the left than I thought it would

Bill; More toward the center of the window?

Cooper: No. More slightly to the left of the window. I could have been |
yawed off a little. I thought the pattern of the little town, it was by

was really more distinctive than the light. If I hadn't known the light was
there I wouldn't Lats selected it in preference to'lots of other lights I saw

on the ground, wasif it hadn't been for the little horseshoe-shape town.

Bill Armstrong: What brightness did you see at this attitude?

‘Cooper: I would say it. was about between third and fourth magnitude when
I first saw it.

Bill: As you continued to observe it did you notice it dimming?

Cooper: No. I could. see it for several seconds. One falicy of the ground
lights is that you are moving on the ground pretty rapidly. You don't have
many seconds to observe any fixed points on the ground. It's moving right
on past you and gone fairly rapidly. Of course as it gets on out it gets dimmer

é

and dimmer.

Question: Have: you any idea how long you were able to observe it?

. Scientific Debriefing -1T-
Cooper: Maybe as long as a minute. I doubt if it was that long, probably

30 or 40 seconds. I lost it because it got too weak. It was a long ways

from being straight out on the horizon but as it got on up towards that

direction it faded outi

Bill: In checking the plot, it looks like it varies from a little over
second magnitude when you forst saw it to about a sixth magnitude when the

Light was turned off.
McKee: Do you know what angle you pitched down to?

_ Cooper:, I believe it was to -40. I was then at the angle we were supposed
to pitch to. I apparently had eased off in yaw. However it tracked pretty
well right up the window. So the yaw was fairly well on. But thes

light was off a little further to the left.

Bill: Did you ever look away from the light and then look back? - Were you |

able to do this and pick it up again?

“Cooper: I took my eyes off of it and had them on the photometer and looked
through the hole in it and extincted it. Turned the dial the wrong way in

the dark, and I did extinct all right. I thought I'd get a good reading on:

it. I gave that device up. It did extinct. oo

Bill: Did you ever notice any change in the Light?

Scientific Debriefing
Cooper: Yes, it got dimmer.

Mercer: Could you see lights of cities through layers of clouds?

Cooper: I saw a lot of cities underneath the clouds. One of my best retrofire

yaw alignments was over Shanghai.
Mercer: Were light patterns more distinctive than individual bright lights?

Cooper: Yes. I was over the east coast of.Australia.: I saw three very

distinct city light patterns there around the Melbourne area.

Paul: When the light dimmed out did you lose the-light first, or the

cities?

Cooper: I lost both in mech the same period of time.

Jones: Did the ground-light appear sharp as a point source or was it

diffused?
Cooper: It was more diffused. Not a sharp point. You could see it was a

single light but it was not like the stars.

Smith: You think @ flashing light would be preferable?

r 4

Scientific Debriefing -19-

Cooper: Definitely: The ideal would be a series of lights. A better
combination would be a series of flashing lights arranged in some pattern.
Maybe like a running rabbit strobe pattern. I am sure it wouldn't have to

be synchronized.

Bill: ‘You mentioned how fast fast you were moving. Do you think you had

enough time to make use of some sighting device such as a sextant? .

Cooper: You aren!t going to be able to take very long. readings. You're
going to have to be set up and ready to go, and you're going to have to have
some devices that are really usable. You figure that when you get from the
west coast of the United States to the east coast of the United States, the
ground is moving under you fairly rapidly taiten minutes. The ground is

moving too fast. You heed to have some devices that are really usable and

you need to be set up and ready to go. I guess you have about 20 to 30

seconds for a reading.

Bill Armstrong: One: of the: phases’ of the Apollo mission requires a position

fix while still in a holding orbit. Before going into the translunar phase

sightings of earth fixed targets for navigation would be about the same as

you experienced in the ground light. Would this be practicable?

Scientific Debriefing -20-

Cooper: You're going to have to be right on in attitudes. You're going

to have to know edantiy what time it's going to occur. I'd guess you have
about 20 to 30 seconds to do your actual sighting and you have to have a good

‘angle off to do it.

Bill: How about the brightness Gordo? How do you feel about this part and
leaving the flash part out of it? Was it bright enough light to be seen

easily?

Cooper: There were a lot brighter lights on the ground.

Bill: I'm sure of that but do you think this is sufficient?

Cooper: You can see it. If you look for it and know it is there and if
you're lucky. Knowing where to look for it and no clouds there, you can | ‘
spot it. (And away from other background lights.) I still think a pattern
would be better than going to a brighter light. I don't think the change

in the brightness of the light would be as effective as making some kind

i

of a pattern.
Jones: Did the ground lights twinkle?

Cooper: Yes. Just like the stars do looking at them from the ground, where

as the stars don't twinkle there.

McKee: I would like to ask. You seemed to have seen our ‘lights as we

expected. You.saw some objects on the ground better than we expected. Can

| Scientific Debriefing -21-

(McKee continued) you say why you saw such small items?

' Cooper: I was coming from Houston the other day in a 102 and I noted I

f coultin't see nearly as clear around 40,000 feet, particularly in one area
that I was in. There was a lot of haze and it was quite humid and I couldn't
distinguish things on the ground very well but yet when I got into the west
coast of Florida and got into an area that was somewhat clearer, at the same
altitude I could see many things. I think again, that it depends on how much
humidity you have and how much haze is in an area. I vamued ei gtt over the
vicinity of Los Angeles and San Diego and never saw them at all. I wasn't
very surprised. I could see where they were but I couldn't see them I
passed right over Miami and Miami Beach and I could see that there was a
town there.. There was a lot of build up and civilization. I could see

the streets but the buildings were not very distinct. But yet over areas

of EL Centro: and the Salton Sea andthe dry lake areas I could see tremendously
greater detail, and individual roads. Over the Himalayas, up in Tibet, of
course there you're above a good portion a certain amount of the atmosphere

I suppose, I was really surprised what I could see. I found some real
details and little villages with maybe 20 or 30 houses I suppose, stood out
very distinctly. You could estimate the number of houses and if a house was
out individually away from Miytauine else I guess against the right color
background, the yard, I could discern individual buildings. I saw a number
of them with smoke, coming ast Gt the chimey. There was snow on this upper .
very sandy blowy, dusty Tibetan area. I could see a lot of lakes some partiallyy
frozen over and some frozen solid. The visibility was tremendous. I could

see vehicles that I assumed were trucks. I could see them kicking up’ dust.

Scientific Debriefing
(MIT Horizon)

Dre Peterson: The purpose of these pictures is that we are trying to
find definite information about the earth for Apollo guidance. This is one
of a group of four pictures taken in four different yaw directions, one into

the sun. Is this maneuver an expensive and troublesome thing to do?

Cooper: It takes control power; it takes control fuel,, it takes time.
However, it is not real epeciates as far as fuel. You have to stay power

upe We debated back and forth about the most accurate way of making sure we .
get these 90° points. We were a little concerned about accuracy and decided
to stay powered up and utilized the gyros to locate the 90° positions. But
it does take that period of time of power to drive the automatic system, and it

7

does take that fuel to move around.
Dre Peterson: I noted you mention 25 hours 20 minutes. At that moment

there is a hole in the transcript. 25 hours and 26 minutes. - 4

‘Cooper: I got those at 25 hours and some odd minutes when the moon was set
in the west. It was right where we had planned to get it the first time.
We rescheduled them later in the flight if we didn't get them at the original

time. But I took them as planned initially. Did those. come out all right?

Dr. Peterson: On two of those it was possible to locate the moon. This.is

not all of them.

Bill Armstrong: Yes , these are all of them. (Looking at pictures)

Scientific Debriefing -23-
Dr. Peterson: There is a smudge in the middle of the window. It could

have been accidently concealed. Since these negatives are only suitable for
microdensitometry there doesn't need to be any discussion of the detalls of
their significance.

(Infrared Weather Photographic Experiment)

Mr. Days I would like to move on to IR Weather photography.

Soules: This experiment went very well and we got the information we

wanted. Thank you very much. Did you have any trouble with the camera or

filter holder?
Cooper: None at a It.worked very well.
And the lens opening of 5.62
Cooper: It was wcieehy Kd what was marked on the magazine.

Soules: There are six pictures at the end of the series and I can't identify

them. \ Do you have any idea where they could have been taken?

(There was a lot of table discussion of pictures here)

Cooper: This was after. the Florida series.

Scientific Debriefing 2h.

Soules: You made the remark that you were coming over Africa. Do you have

any more information? There was none in the transcript.

- Cooper: What base was this on?

Bill: Wasn't one of them over the coastline?
Cooper: Yes, I did one right on the coast of Africa. I got one coming
right over the coastline. Another one I got almost over the other coast; down

toward Johannesburg; it was an inland picture, almost the northern area.

4

Soules: The last four are a mystery.

Bill Armstrong: It-looks like you had about a quarter inch motion on frame:

Cooper: I'm sure I didn't. I was holding the camera just eee L was before.
Soules: We might check the jgteea:

, ‘Soules: What was the dominant color of the earth over Baja California?
open: I found that the green showed up very little. The only really

distinct green that I saw which showed up mich was in the high Tibetan area.

It. was a bright emerald green, by some of those lakes. It looked like a

copper sulphate mining area. ‘The browns of the Arabian Desert Sand showed

up quite distinct. The Sahara was not quite so brown although it did have
. ss . ‘ i

Scientific Debriefing -25-
(Cooper continued) a brown look. Everything predominantly had a bluish

cast. All the water, all the sea water, looked very very bright blue.
Even the Salton Sea looked very blue. And areas we kmow were heavy forest
areas looked kind of blue-green. ‘The areas that are definitely brown you can

tell they are browns
Soules: I have a question on the thunderstorms. Could you hear static?

Cooper: I could hear. it day or night and on both HF and UHF. It was almost
instantaneous. As I would-see the lightning and the clouds light up I~:

would get the static.
Soules: What is the frequency band on HF?

Cooper: HF is 15 megacycles. The static was louder in the HF than in the

UHF. You could just hear it, it wasn't high magnitude.
Soules: Was there a difference in loudness between day and night?
Cooper: I think night side was considerably louder. Of course I noted

thunderstorms were louder on’night side. There were large masses of

thunderstorms out to the east of Australia.

Soules: Did the flash come from below the capsule or could you look off

at an.angle? 4

Scientific Debriefing ~26-
Cooper: I could not see distinct lightning patterns. It just all lit up.

The whole cumlus mass of clouds would light up.
Soules: Did you notice thunderstorms between Hawaii and California.

Cooper: -Yes, several off the west coast of the United States. I don't

remember just how far. There were several cumulus buildups.
_ Soules: Did they look like the usual thunderstorms?

Cooper: They went on down’to a stratus deck on into coast on down about

Los Angeles. They stood further off the coast than up north.

Soules: Did you see any long white bands of clouds along the east coast in”

the tropical areas?

Cooper: Yes. One was over the Arabian desert that was quite distinct. I

took a color photograph of that.

Soules! Was’ it a very sharp line of clouds with build-up in it?

Cooper: Yes. Number 10 picture is over the Arabian desert area.

Soules: Over the oceans did you notewwide bands with perhaps clear

over it?

Scientific Debriefing -27-
Cooper: No. I noticed several large cyclonics. I did not notice any very

distinct sharp bands. However I did notice tropical thunderstorms. Near

‘the Solomon Island Areas there were a lot of low streets and ridges of

smaller cumulus clouds. There were little rows of them.

Scientific Debriefing  #28-

boutes: Was the horizon always a sharp line?

Cooper: Yes, day and night the horizon was sharp. In the day you have this bright
blue band around it. is : ,

Soules: Some photos show the horizon seemed fuzzy.

Cooper: In the Himalayas on a couple of occasions where the horizon was rough

due to the mountains, the horizon was still very distinct.

Soules: Did you see the moon at the time of occultation?

Cooper: Yes, several times. I was sorry I did not get pictures.

Soules: Did you see a halo around the moon? |

Cooper: I saw no sign of a halo. It was quite sharp.

Soules: Did you ever see a slight flash? Did the moon's color change at all as it
went through the atmosphere?

Cooper: No. I was looking for this too. I was disappointed in the moon scenes .«,

I didn't see anything distinctive at all.

Soules: I made a sketch of haze layer. Would you take a look at it and tell me

what you think?

Voas; Gordo, would you draw it on the board?
(Period demonstrating on blackboard of horizon, haze, etc.)

Cooper: This is the earth with a sharp horizon on the earth. The lower haze
level was always under me separated from the horizon. This was not a real distinct
line. It was a little more distinct and it appeared to be the same color as if it
were a cloud and as the stars would pass down through it you could track a fairly

‘ high order of magnitude of star and you could track it down through haze and it
would appear real bright as it came down through it.

Soules: About what magnitude could you see? ine

§cientiZic Debriefing -29-
| Gooper: The stars in the Big Dipper could just be seen. I noted the Big Dipper

with the bottom star sinking down into it.
Soules: The top of the layer would be how many degrees above the horizon?
Biss

Cooper: I figured it was about six or seven degrees.

4

(Long period of sketching.)

Peterson: Would you estimate any appraisal in terms of stellar magnitude? You
explained that the fifth magnitudes could be seen, did the weaker-stars go out

in that area?
(Still illustrating. )

Note: During this period when Cooper was talking and sketching on the board,
the recorded comments are meaningless.
Cooper: I can't recall a single time at night but what I saw the haze layer.
Dr. Voes: I described the earth as. being dark. Which is darker, the earth
or the little band of sky?
Cooper: When there was no moon the earth was darker. In general there was more
light from the sky. It is a difference in two different blacks. The sky is a
shinier black. The earth is a dull black.
Dr. Voas;: The horizon is very well defined?
Cooper; It is actually a different black. There is a distinct line of horizon
and the earth is darker. This is in complete night.
Dr. Voes: When the moon comes up the earth becomes lighter as the moon shines on it?
Cooper: It shows up distinctly, especially when there are clouds.
Soules; Here is a picture that Wally took. Does that look like a haze band on the
horizon? .

' O'Keefe: When was that picture taken?

Soules: Is that too high?

Scientific Debriefing -30-

Soules: You saw something over South America?

‘Gooper: Yes, there is this other higher level I saw over South America.

stanley Soules: Did you see different cloud layers at night? ‘

Cooper: Only if there was moonlight and if there were towns or cities below

them. On several occasions I could see reflected light particularly through
stratus type clouds.

Soules: You could distinguish clouds. Does the earth appear as blue to your eye
as it does in the photos?

Cooper: Yes. The overall color is pretty blue.

Soules: What is the color of the twilight zone?

Cooper: It is @ baby blue: It is @ pure, pure blue, very, very bright.

Soules: Did you see any meteor trails?

Cooper: No.

Soules: Did you see @ lot of sun?

Cooper: I sure did. I want to tell you I did!

Soules: Was there any evidence of 4 corona?

Cooper: No. In fact, the sun appeared to be like the moon does from the earth.
Very bright. You know down here there are all those rays around it. But up there
it is bust @ glob and it is very very whitish bright. It doesn't look the same
color. It is a very arc-like color, bluish white.

Question; What about the looks of the day sky?

Cooper: The day sky just is not as dark as the night sky. It is black and dark
but not as dark as the night sky. You can see the brighter stars on the day side
when you are away from the sun and neither it nor the earth shine are coming in the
window. Give yourself a few seconds to get dark adapted and you can see the brighter

stars. They have to be fairly bright to see them. On’ the order of 3rd magnitude.

' Beientific Debriefing -31-
“Dr. Voes; The day sides get a lot lighter, at night they are about the same

darkness as the inside of the spacecraft.

Cooper: The night sky and the day sky is about the same as the difference between
a jet black and a dark gray.. (It is about the same difference between the night
aky: and ithe Way ‘sicy,) thde wetter kind of dark during the day. Not nearly as
dark as the night sky.

Dr. Voes: Is it a smooth overall gray on the window? Do you see any chance at all
that the grayness you noted could be minute amounts of scattered light from fog on
the window? : : nex

Cooper: I don't believe so, Bob, because immediately when'you got a faint amount
of oblique light on the window it immediately looked like it was iced over. All
you had to do was get just a faint amount on it and it appeared to be just like a
canopy frozen over.

O'Keefe: Was this scattered light in the window or not? I hoped you could see
some kind of a pattern.

Cooper: That's what I'm saying. When you have any kind of scattered light on the
window, when the window was in any kind of an attitude (demonstrated) say this is
the window and out here is the sun, any time the window was moved around where
there was any kind of light shining on the window - just a faint amount of it

. would completely obliterate the vision through the window. I just went completely
IFR. There waa vat no looking through the window. Of course, the earth gives off
an awful lot of light, and you can't see anything as long as the earth is shining
in the window. Any time the sun was back here and I was faced away from the earth,
regardless of attitude, the sky appeared to be a smooth gray.

O'Keefe: You could see the grit on the window? :

Cooper; You could see the light actually impinging on the window. You could see

the scum all over the inside of the outside pane.

Scientizic Debriefin ~32-

O'Keefe: Somewhat of a pattern?

@ooper: That's right. A pattern over the outside of the window as well as the
$cum on the inside. ;

O'Keefe: If this had been scattered light you would have had this pattern?

Cooper: That's right. .

(Dim Light photographs.)

Day: Presentation of Dim Light Phenomena: Roach, O'Keefe, Huck.

Roach: You had above this haze layer another layer. ‘Would you sketch that? »
(Illustration.)

Cooper; This one time I did have it. I am almost certain this was about 2h hours
and 30 minutes over South America.. I was facing to the ast and was on drift, I
think. I was looking to the east » northeast area. I was in full drift.

O'Keefe: Reference was on page 26.

Cooper: That was the luminous activity on page 37. "Right now I can make out

a lot of luminous activities in an easterly direction." This was at 05 11 34 and
on a 05.13 40. The Milky Way was quite distinct. This particular time (over South
America) I couldn't make out on this layer. I wouldn't say it was much like a layer.
It hen" distinct and it didn't last long; but it was higher than I was. It wasn't
in the vicinity of the horizon and was not well defined.

Roach: More like a patch?

Cooper: Smoother. It wah a@ good sized area.

Roach: You didn't feel this had a discrete shape?

Cooper: “It was very indistinct in shape. It was a faint glow with a reddish brown

cast. °

-Roach; Because of your altitude or what?

Scientific Debriefing -33-

| Gooper: It wasn't so distinctive as to move back on to it. It was very faint

and definitely lighter than the sky. It was picking up some light of some type.

Tt was light in contrast to the sky.

Hick Day: Could you see this better out of the corner of your eye?

Cooper: Yes. Sort of that type of thing. I'm almost certain that this was

over South America, just coming up on to the northeastern part of South America.
It was around 50 degrees West and about zero degrees of latitude.

Roach: This reminds me of what Mr. Schirra saw off Madagascar.

Cooper: He saw it off North Africa. It seemed to be:quite extensive but not well
defined. It was rather diffused but not covering the whole earth.

Roach: Could you tell us what happens when ied peak from day into night, around

twilight? We are interested in horizon effect after sunset.
(Cooper draws some more pictures. )

Cooper: You never tire of looking at the sunsets. As the sun begins to get down.
towards the horizon it is very well defined and not a@iffused as it is when looking
through the atmosphere, and it is quite difficult to look at. It is quite white
and as it gets on down to where the sun begins to impinge on the horizon line it
does give a spreading effect. The sky is getting quite dark here and you get the
impression of blackness up here. (Illustrating. ) The layer is bright orange
color and light spreading out in this direction. . -

As the sun begins to go down it is replaced by this bright gold orange. It extends
out for some way. It defines the horizon line fairly well at this time. The sun
does begin to get this flattened effect. :

iaeach: What was it's maximum flattening?

Cooper: I never got too much. It appears to get down part way below the horizon

. Scientific Debriefing -34-

and spread. It doesn't take long. As it goes on down you still have this orange
yignt on the horizon and this area is all considerably ligtiter although black is
goming on down. You do get glow uw off it. You could actually swing away and tell
right where the sun had set a number of seconds after. It is not ray-like. It
is hard. to describe. The sky area is lighter but there are not any rays.
Note: At this time there was a general discussion of the night sky immediately
after sunset. The transcript is too incomplete in this region to give a recorded
account of this discussion. It appears that after describing the sunset and the
airglow layer someone Ast. Cooper an additional glow extending vertical above the
position on the horizon where svanet occurred. Obviously reference was being
made to observation of the Zodiacal light.
Cooper: That's right. After this effect disappears (glow of sunset) and you
think you're on complete darlmess, I would guess on the order a minute after
sunset, you get this other. I guess two different times I saw faint glow but not
very fex along. It was more on the order of 3 to 4 degrees farther on

and a fainter order.
Roach: Did you notice this was cone shaped?
Cooper: A little bit cone shaped.
Roach; Did you happen to sweep across it that way?
Cooper: It was a minute or so prior to sunrise and noted back across and about
the time I got back the sun was there.
Roach; Did it seem to be sentinel in your window?
Cooper: Yes. The bright blue: band grew wider as you moved away.

Roach: Was this just before sunrise?

Cooper: The sun is. getting ready to come up and at this particular time I got

this glow prior to getting a blue band and in a few seconds the blue widens and

. Widens. ,

Scientific Debriefing : -35-

Roach; Is this phenomenon very close to the sun?

Cooper: I had the feeling that this was just a glow off the sun. It was not

ap prigat as the Milky Wey. ame = ‘ | 2

Mercer; Was it tipped to the right or left of sunrise?

Cooper: I was sitting tipped myself and don't remember which way it was. I have
the impression it was not vertical.

Dr. Voas: It appears the red and gold you described at sunset does not occur

at dawn. :

Cooper: Sunset is more of a golden orange.

Dr. Voas: Did you notice any of the flattening as the sun rose?

Cooper: Not as much, but you do get a little bit.

if

Roach; Going back to the time just preceding retro, were you constantly on stellar

observation before the dawn? Were you able to follow any stars?

Cooper: Yes. With the sun to my back, the first thing I got was the Sian glow
and through the cloud below I got Shanghai. The first indication: you get of the
sun going up behind you is the 1i gntening of the clouds underneath and you note
the clouds getting lighter and lighter and you can still see the stars. As you
perch a certain point, your window gets enough light - your window appears completely
frosted over.

Roach; What star were you using? ©

Cooper: I was using pebelgeine and tracking on:up from that to Sirius and Procyon
and then I had a barren area. Then I believe Castor and Pollux and Corvus was

the last. I couldn't pick up Antares. By this time I was getting good light on
clouds. The stars don't give you much yaw determination. You can sit there for
long time and if you hold rates very close to zero you can get a fairly good
indication, but it is a lengthy process when you are determining yaw by seeing the

movement of stars.

Seientific Debriefin -36-

5 SE aa
Rgach; From that standpoint, is it better to retro in the daylight?

Copper: You could probably do it at night, but it is preferable to do it in the day.
Ngte: The next few comments are not interpretable, but it appears someone raised
" ajquestion about the blue horizon band visible during daylight,

Copper: This is: predominantly blue and if you have land masses or things that

you know are not blue - - = but this is about a two degrees thick band. It isn't
quite as thick as the band underneath - - = the last layer at night is thicker

than this blue band end it is @ brilliant blue.

Roach: Then, is there some structure above the blue layer?

Cooper: I never could see pattern structure above that. It is really not black.
This is any time you have earth shine. This is not a real sherply defined - = ~
There is a little blue gray going thru this area here. The overall band is real
bright pale bluw and just faintly diffuse on this side. (Explanation is made using
a sketch at the blackboard. )

Question: Is it diffuse on the ‘ers side?

Cooper: It ig not just a real sharp line or two different distinct colors. It does
diffuse very slightly.

Question: How wide is that band in angle?

Cooper: It is about two degrees.

Huch: I understand it gave a little problem in roll and yaw. You said just as the
sun was sinking.

Cooper: That's right. This is where I could tell where the sun had been. I moved
back to that and’ put the gyros to free and went into the automatic mode. (Again :
using sketch.)

Huch: , With reference to the sunset, do you estimate the time when the Zodiacal light

sequence was started?

Scientific Debriefing ~3T@

scooper: I would guess it was on the order of 20 to 30 seconds | after sunset, that is
jpst a guess. And this is all the counting I was doing to give ‘you the timing and
there was interference from the ground stations.

guch Did you observe capsule stability - aid you feel it was holding sufficiently
etal for time exposures?

Choper: Of course, we knew it would be moving. Did better than I thought it would.
Huch: For the most part they came out quite clear.

Bill Armstrong: You get pitch up at the rate of 4° per minute.

Cooper; Actually, you had more than that.

Shepard: During the Zodiacal light sequence, you had over .5 degrees per minute.
Question: What are your attitude tolerances in ASCS?

Cooper: I would say within about 5 1/2 degrees. This will be a very slow variance.
Question: How fast is this per minute? The period is 2 to 3 minutes per oscillation.
John Ven Bockel: It is about .05 degrees per second.

Shepard: The limits could be as much as 11 degrees.

John Van Bockel: It is pretty close to plus or minus 10 degrees.

Cooper: Did you get anything from the latter portion of the picture? The airglow

pictures?

Mercer: Yes.

Cooper; I worried that the angle of the camera was down too much.

Huch: Was there anything unusual that happened through the night?

Cooper: There was a lot of lightning.

Huch: Was there an accumulation of moisture on the window?

Coopers No. To me it didn't seem to cut down too much.

Huch: You reported a lot of lightning.

Cooper: Right when I was taking aim light pictures there were several thunder-

storms and a lot of lightning.

Qcientific Debriefing =38-

Ghepard: Did you get any readout on attitudes?

Mercer: We got good attitudes.

Huch: On the pictures, can you relate the airglow band to what you drew on the board?

ina you take any exposures into the sunlit sky? ,

Cpoper: No, I didn't. I was going to try and snap one of this planet but couldn't

get the camera out in time. After I once got it out of the equipment locker, the

planet was gone.

Huch: Was the camera easy to use?

Cooper: Yes, after I once got it out of the locker it was easy to use.

Huch: Would it be possible to take 4 picture of the Milky Way?

Cooper: Yes. The last picture that I made was this haze layer when it was 50

bright. It should be somewhere right near. It was near the vertical coming through

the window. |

Huch: The range of light intensity was very extreme.

Cooper: The last exposure I made was of this glow and I think I used a 20 or

@ 15 second exposure time.

Note: A general discussion was carried on at this point concerning the number

of exposures and general observations. It is not possible to decipher these

comments into usable form. ,
(Radiation Experiments. )

Warren: We have some preliminary results I will give to you later. Did you take

the chember out of the ditty bag and fasten it on the hatch?

Cooper: I took it out of the storage container and fastened it to the hatch on

the first orbit. ,

Warren; Could you give me a time estimate?

Cooper: I would say within an hour after liftoff.

Scientific Debriefing -39-

“ffarven: Did you take it off prior to retro?

doogers Yes. I took it off just prior to retro. I stowed it in the glove compertnnaen
“Warren; Did you take a reading of it at any time? "
Cooper: No, I didn't.

Aah Did you place it vertically? Where did you place it?

Cooper; I placed it vertically.

Warren. We got from that and also from film badger you carried on under

clothing - - - We got an estimate of 15-20 milliroentgens. I think you would get
more in an X-ray than you had here. It was about what expected.

Warren: Is there any particular reason that the 7th and 9th orbits were left out
or were you just too busy? : \

Cooper: I don't remember which orbit I missed. I believe one of them I was quite
busy trying to get this condensate water situation straightened out and debated
turning it on later, but decided I had better not. |

Warren: It wouldn't have served much use later.

Cooper: That was the 5th orbit.

Warren: The 6th and Tth were the ones missed.

Cooper: The 6th one was where I was having the condensate difficulty. I don't
know why I missed the other one on the 9th orbit. We weren't schedule to run one
on the 9th!

Bill: He had one at 9 hours and 40 minutes on the 7th orbit; then he had another
one on the 8th, 11:15 to 11:25. And then you go into rest period after that.
Warren: We got that. 3

- Bill: He went into rest period after that.

Warren; Late in the night, you turned the tape on continuous and it stayed on
the rest of the flight. Was there any particular reason you could not have left

the switch on?

Cooper: You mean the radiation? We hadn't planned to do this because of power

Scientific Debriefing -40-
tne

conservation. It does take a certain amount of power.

JecKann' That decision was made not to turn that on continuous because it had
‘pever been checked out for continuous Speration because of some difficulties that
might arise because of this.

thepard: That seems to be a reasonable decision.

Warren: That is all I had.

Cooper: Did you get anything at a11?2

Warren: Particularly on the 7th orbit we got some date, that gave us quite a

good bit of background. Thank you.

' ‘Scientific Debriefing

(General Observations )

Dr. O'Keefe: I understand the hissing noise was completely negative. Can you
be sure it was not then?
Cooper: I didn't ever hear it at all. I had good fitting ear caps.

Dr. O'Keefe: Were you listening for it at the time?

Cooper: Yes, except I had my visor closed and with the visor closed you can't
hear too much. :

Dr. O'Keere: At one point oe rumor circulated in the public mess that you had

seen a meteor.

Cooper: This was a false rumor. os

Dr. O'Keefe: At one point you said you saw frost on the window.

Cooper: This is the material that turned out to be oil.

Paul Lowman: Have you seen the terrain photos? Have you seen number 8, east
coast of Africa? Does it look this blue?

Cooper: Not quite. The film has fairly true ‘reproduction but in several cases it
might be a little more blue in film, than it actually is.

Paul Lowman: How about the shots over Himalayas?

Cooper: ‘They look fairly true to color.

Paul Lowman: Where you're going over the ocean, could you distinguish different
shades of blue?

Cooper: Yes, over GBI, Eleuthera and Suba and right down the whole island chain, ©
you could very definitely tell the shallower water areas. You could see reefs

and green water in some of the lagoons. Not real distinctive green as you might think,

and you could see sand at about its normal color. If you are looking straight down
on things the color is more true than if you're looking at an angle. If you're looking

at an angle, there is more of a bluish tint.

Scientific Debriefing

Paul Lowman: When you were over the deep ocean could you see any evidence of currents ,

at the coast of Africa or the coast of South America. Did yousee different colors?
Gooper: There was some slight difference in color. I couldn't determine a pattern
dna couldn't determine what it was. I thought it might be‘wave patterns.

Paul Lowman: Were there different colors going over forest areas, over Africa?
Were there different shades of green?

Cooper: Not too many. They looked to be a blue-green instéad of a pure green.
Greens didn't come through too well. They were somewhat diffused with this blue
color.

Paul Lowman: Over the Himalayas, shot number 12, was the green true?

Cooper: Yes, fairly true. |

Shepard: I think we should get weather records and corrilate the color with the
moisture content.

Cooper: Did you get the list where I identified the pictures?

Paul Lowman: Comparing with these rocket photographs over in El: Paso area, do

you recall looking there or to west over Arizona?

Cooper: I didn't. I noted I was over this area. It looked familar. I had the
feeling in looking out I was right over the Mexican Border. I don't recall just
what gave me this feeling.

Soules: There is quite a bit of detail in IR photos.

Cooper: Just before that I noted the town of El Centro and the air base. as

noted one little dry lake area east of there. I kept trying to see Muroc Dry Lake
and Rosemond up north but never did see those, but saq several dry lakes. I saw
one very clear. It was not a large one. It was about due east of Salton Sea
area.

Paul Lowman: Could you*see Biggs Air Force Base.

Cooper: I didn't notice Biggs at all, in fact, I couldn't see the main part of

y

Scientific Debriefing -43-

phe city of El Pase. I could see some little isolated civilized areas. I
mever did see the main part of city.
"Paul Lowman: Did you see any distinct shadows from the terrain? Mountains?

1

Cooper: ‘Yes. You could see shadows of the mountains quite clearly. Even more
hearty than the mountains in the twilight were the shadows vom clouds on ground.

: Poul Towhians How did the camera operate while taking pictures? Do you recall
shaking the camera at any time?

Cooper: No: I don't recall shaking the camera at all.

Paul Lowman: They all look pretty good; I just wanted to make sure. Is there
any vibration in the capsule when you are taking pictures?

Cooper: No. Very little. It is pretty smooth.

Paul Lowman: Do you think if you had a chance to sit down with those photographs,
you could give us an idea of the inclination to the vertical or horizontal? You
said over the West you couldn't see Los Angeles or San Diego, do you remember :
how far north you could see? ‘ond the coast?

Cooper: I could see three or four hundred miles on up north. There was a lot

of cloud cover-a lot of stratus. You could see patterns where the ground caused
difference in cloud formation.

Paul Lowman: How about on the east coast? Could you identify anything there?
Cooper: I could see the Cape clearly on one pass and;the St. Johns river and
could see where it came in the inlet at Jacksonville. Right to about Savannah,
Georgia and clouds became broken and I could see banks of clouds lined on up

to what I believe was the bulge of the Hatteras area and prehaps 150 miles on

- further. But clouds were obscuring. I felt I could see quite clearly on up north
to Hatteras and perhaps on up to the Washington area. My sight of this was when

I made my turnaround. It looked just like a map. It was a great wide expanse of

, Gclentitic Debriefing l=
é

$he East coast. But there was a quite a bit of clouds up north, broken clouds.

e

Paul Lowman: Were there any unusual terrain features?
4

br. O'Keefe: .Did you see anything that looked like a crater?

denen! No. I sure didn't. I was looking for it too.

Paul Lowman: You went over one in Ghana, but I don't know if it was good or

not.

Cooper: Over Africa there was unusual rocky terrain up in the Atlas mountains.

I didn't see any craters.

Dr. Voes: Do you--could you see clouds and shore lines at night with no moon?
Cooper: Fairly well. If there was no moon you could see them faintly.

Dr. Voes: Any other terrain features that you could see? At night with no moon?
Cooper: No. Not much. You could see the moonlight on the water.

Dr. O'Keefe: You mentioned these small particles. Do I understand correctly —
that they seemed to. be pushed outward from the capsule?

Cooper: If you consider this west and this east and the spacecraft is going east,
regardless of spacecraft attitude, if any time I fired one of the thrusters at
night, I could see glow from almost every one of the thrusters. The pitch-down
thruster I could see and the yaw I could see shortly after they got out of the
nozzle. You get tremendous streams of luminous particles of fireflies, and
regardless of what attitude you were in, ther appeared to come out from the
spacecraft. A great many could be seen for some period and they seemed to go
back along flight path.

‘Dr. Voas: Did they actually appear to flow around? Would you say now that they were
parallel. As they go back, they will appear ‘optically to come together. But did
they actually curve around as if there was a flow field.

Cooper: I felt they were actually moving around. Their relative movement was

Gcientific Debriefing -h5-
got real. fast. I could see them move right on out. In a matter of 4 or 5 seconds

they would be as far away as the other end of the room. (50 feet). Some you
a) if

gould see for maybe as long as 30 or 40 seconds.

dhestion: Do you mean back from you or back along the flight path?

Cooper: I mean back the actual flight path.

Dr. Voas: Were these paths actually curved? You're of course familiar with the
fact that as things go backward they appear to converge. Did they actually seem
to curve in? |

Cooper: If I would be sitting facing this way, the ones out of the left yaw
thruster would move right out and move directly back along the flight path;

the ones out of the right one would go out in front of me and would turn back.
John Boynton: Did you note any difficulty in identifying lunar features?
Cooper: I couldn't distinguish anything on the moon. It seemed considerably
brighter. And seemed to have more light. I couldn't really distinguish anything.
Roach: Would it be practicle to have binoculars aboard?

Cooper: I think it would. The moon was much clearer than on the ground.

Huch: Could you see the earth shine on the moon?

Cooper: The moon was fuller when it was setting than at other times during the
night. I never realized that before just now. But it seemed to be almost full
when it was setting. But on the night side there was only a third of the moon.
How about that now. The moon was almost fully round when it was setting. I think
the pictures will show it.

Roach: That could be earth shine.

Cooper: That's right. It is a pale color, of course, in daylight.

Dr. Voas: Did it appear to you SEN in brightness on tha day side?

Cooper: Yes, it was just a lightish blue color.

hoe

Bcientific Debriefing -4.6-

t
bd

(Question: Could you determine wind direction and velocity by smoke?
4 i
fooper: I could tell direction - over the Tibet’area the wind iwas from the south.

Question: Did you see industrial smoke?

Gooper: I remember one fairly large area there was considerable haze and factory

type smoke winding up, but don't remember where it was. It seemed to bei like an aad

invers:ion.

o

Hanel: You did not see the motion of the clouds?

Cooper: No I could not determine the motion Of the clouds. Oh, you mean velocity

by the way the smoke was moving.

Hanel: I mean the clouds were moving.

"hepard: Your first question was could he tellwind velocity and direction from

the smoke?

Cooper: I don't know whether I could judge velocity or not. I could tell the wind

was blowing fairly strongly, because the smoke appeared to come out of the smoke

stacks flatly, it didn't drift up. But looking at the clouds, I could not tell

which direction the wind was blowing.

Hanel: Did you have difficulty in seeing Cirrus clouds?

Hanel: Another question. We may have some trouble distinguishing snow from clouds

in polar regions. You had no difficulty in distinguishing snow from clouds?

Cooper: No. I thought the snow was very very distinct. It is just like flying

an airplane. Sometimes when the snow is very smooth and even, it is difficult

to tellclouds from snow. You can determine the cloud height if you have a good

perspective of the cloud height. You can tell whether the clouds are low or medium

‘clouds or very high clouds.

Hanel: You never took two pictures of the same area? That is, two overlapping

pictures?

Cooper: Yes, I think I did over the Himalayas. I have two pictures of almost

the same area of the Tibetan High Lake area.

Scientific Debriefing -.7-

|, bikeege: Yes, they do overlap. ~- They are pretty badly tilted,’ but they do
overlap. . if
Genel: Did you have difficulty in seeing Cirrus clouds? Could you estimate how
guch ox the surface was covered with Cirrus?
Gooper: Surprising little of surface was covered with Cirrus clouds. I would
guess about half. niave mies some areas where clouds were fairly extensive.
Cirrus were Biaesat portion, about 75% of all-clouds were Cirrus.
Question: Did you see any dust storms?
Cooper: At no time did I note a dust storm. I joked for them over Africa.
place I thought I might find them was over Arabia, but I saw no dust at all.
John Boynton: You. mentioned that particles of dust or water were attracted to
the window. Was this rapid or gradual?
Cooper: Very gradual. Numberous little dust particles, a little water and little
crumbs. The larger objects didn't seem to be attracted. They just moved slowly
about. There was less motion after we powered down cabin fan. Various pieces of
dust or crumbs off of sandwiches I had eaten. |
John Boynton: Did you note they might have been attracted to other areas?
Cooper: I didn't note any particular pattern. I did note the sun was very very hot
through the window. The particular pattern of the et Cees be hot on my suit. Ne

would feel heat through my glove when I touched the window.

A

Scientivic Debriefing -4.8

Dr. Voas: You seemed to have the general impression that you were stationary

4
and everything else is moving.

Cooper: That's right. You sort of become the center of everything, and you think
nt you can move the earth around, when you want it, rather than move yourself.
Dr. Voas: Now, as you sat there with this moving picture in front of you, did you
cave the general feeling you were sitting upright or flying on your back?

Cooper: I did very distinctly feel I was sitting upright. A couple of times

on account of the way you feel in the straps Like hanging upside down. Every

time I dropped something, I grabbed at it below. I never had trouble handling
pencil. I never had any trouble putting it where I wanted or getting it. One
time I made a wild grab for the camera as I thought it was going to fall, but of
course it didn't.

Dr. Voas: On periods after you awakened, did you have feeling you had gone to
sleep sitting upright?

Cooper: Yes. Definitely.

Dr. Voas;: You mentioned sometimes you had the feeling of being upside down. Was
this correlated with the spacecraft being inverted? Visually, I mean.

Cooper: No. I think this was purely a feeling of the straps. You're floating

in the straps rather than being firm; like inverted flight in an aircraft.

Voas: Did you have a general feeling of being stationary? This general feeling
of being stationary was not changed by any control action?

Cooper; I tried to give them some pretty good rates, but had no feel for rates at all.
Cooper: Vision-wise, you would see things changing ou then pretty fast, but it
wasn't bothersome at all. :

Dr. Voas: When you say "pretty good rates," this is 2 to 3 degrees per second?

Cooper: Three, four or five degrees.

Scientific Debriefing -49-
HM
_pr. Vous: At retro fire, did you note feelings of lateral motion?

Cooper: On the third one, it gave me pretty good little boot in yaw.

pe, Vous; This is distinguished from what you could see looking out? As TI
understand it, you felt the retro rockets but they didn't change your impréssion

that you were sitting stationary?

Cooper: All I did was feel them and I still had the feeling I was moving right along.
Dr. Voas: Did you feel you were moving backwards?

Cooper: I was moving backwards in retro attitude, then you get quite a motion as

I stated over the earth.

Question: Did you have any sensations of change in attitude between perigee and

apogee, perhaps as a result of the amount of curvature you could see in the earth's

surface?

Cooper: No, I couldn't see any noticeable change in that. What was more distinct
was whether you had haze or were in a clear area. .

Lou Fisher: We identified one of your pictures taken vertical off Calcutta.
Cooper: Did you note the one before that over the Rangoon area, with the little
things out over the river; they look like warehouses or something?

Fisher: Did you see, Calcutta?

Cooper: No.

Fisher: Did you see any airports?

Cooper: Yes, I saw numerous airports. The runway patterns show up very distinctly.

‘Scientific Debriefing - -50-
soyntons Did you find that later in the flight audio inputs became more startling
Jor more distinct? Did they seem to be more profound?
Qocnelt Later in flight, I began to notice the relay panel wiping back and forth
_Wnereas I hadn't noticed it before. The music sounded pretty good. If I'd had
a radio on board, I could have used it.
John Boynton: Did you find you might look forward to hearing communications, say
more so than in the first of the flight?
Cooper: No. Not that I noted. i
John B.: Could you hear better?
Cooper: No.
Dr. Voas: Did you at any time hear an wnusual noise?
Cooper: No.
Roach; Was there any change of radio static in electrical storms? ‘In connection
with the problem of radio static, there is a phenomenon of static going to and
fro between the hemispheres, when it returns it comes back as a whistle. Did you
ever hear a whistle? :
Cooper: No, I didn't.
Note: Some questions were then raised concerning the appearance of the horizon
at sunrise and sunset. Cooper stated that the horizon near the sun was & golden
color at sunset, sieadie away from the sun. He stated; "The real dominant thing |
is that it is gold as it ‘is setting and it is real blue & it starts to come up.”
He stated again that he saw the Zodiacal light both night and morning. It was a

very low order magnitude light, about the same at sunrise and at sunset. He >

estimated its elongation to be about 15 degrees.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

15 November 1963
In Reply Refer to:
SM(JRG:nem)

MEMORANDUM FOR: All Participants
FROM: J. R. Gill

SUBJECT: Scientific Debriefing of Lt. Cmdr,
Walter Schirra, held at NASA
Headquarters, March 12, 1963

This document is a literal transcription of the
subject de-briefing made from the tape recording.
It is issued to participants only for their
comments’ and/or recommended deletion, Deadline
for receipt of this is December 20, 1963, After
that time an edited version may be prepared for
wider distribution.

Jocelyn R, Gill

Enclosure

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

pl G2

Dr. Eugene M. Shoemaker, Chairman, Manned Space Science
Working Group served as Chairman, substituting for Dr. John Clark,
Chief Scientist. The following people were present:

Mr. Carl Abraham, NASA Headquarters

Mr. Richard Daniels, NASA Headquarters

Dr, Winifred Cameron, Goddard Space Flight Center

Mr. Maurice Dubin, NASA Headquarters

Mr. Larry Dunkelman, Goddard Space Flight Center

Dr. Jocelyn R. Gill, NASA Headquarters

Dr. Dale Jenkins, NASA Headquarters

Dr. Urner Liddel, NASA Headquarters

Mr, Oran Nicks, NASA Headquarters

Dr. John Nordberg, Goddard Space Flight Center

Dr. John O'Keefe, Goddard Space Flight Center

Cmdr. Walter Schirra, Manned Spacecraft Center

Mr. George Tennyson, Goddard Space Flight Center

Dr. Eugene M, Shoemaker, NASA Headquarters
Dr. Shoemaker - I have a series of written questions to start
things off. These have been submitted by some of the people here
today and we may then ask for some supplementary questions from
the rest of the people this morning. We might start off with
the question on airglow, Will you give us an account of
Mercury's passage through the airglow layers? How did you identify
the planet Mercury? Did it seem to have color? Were there any
stars nearby?

Cmdr. Schirra - I think Larry Dunkelman and I discussed this at

great length and I don't know whether we could be any more
expansive on that subject than we have already. The only

thing that I can think of that we didn't talk about is an

effective color of the planet Mercury, It was as white to

me as any other’star. It was not blue, red or some other color.

It was definitely "star-appearing" to me. It would have a

definite atmosphere where it would change colors and where it
didn't have any atmosphere, it didn't change colors, I would

say that from that it had no different appearance than if I cauld
see it from the earth as'a star. Mercury itself was plotted on my
atar chart, which is a very valuable tool for these flights. There
is just no doubt where Mercury has to’be and we checked on it and,
of course, it was Mercury. I think Larry called me one day and we
all were surprised that I saw Mercury longer than I should have seen
it and I guess this was explained by its being seen through the

refraction’of the’ atmosphere. Is this correct?

Dr. O'Keefe - Yes, that's the answer. Mrs. Cameron is the one who

made the contribution. This is her theory.

Schirra - This’was a tremendous yardstick as far as I was concerned,
It was so obvious to’'me that I just had to take the time to describe
its passage through the various layers of light and the way I
described it’ in the handouts "Results of Third U. S. Manned

Orbital Space’ Flight; October’3, 1962" that you have is about

as accurate ’as I can*describe it now.

Dr. Gill - Could you’ make a little drawing on the blackboard for us?

4
Schirra - Again, Larry, do you have that? (Referring to drawing
prepared by W. Cameron and L. Dunkelman)
Mr. Dunkelman ~- We have,
Schirra - We sat down for about an hour and traced this very
carefully.
Mr. Dunkelman - It happens that the movement of Mercury behind
our atmosphere is really not phenomenally related to airglow as
such, Mercury is simply a pointer - an index finger. It gave us
a chance to see what parts of the upper atmosphere you were looking
at and this has more to do with ozone and atmospheric constituents
than it has to do with airglow. We think the answer here lies in
the fact that the ozone is absorbing the orange, yellow, and green
light and leaves this interesting blue which is an ozone blue
rather than a Rayleigh blue and we think the reason why Astronaut
Schirra saw the several shades of blue is he may have been looking
edge-on at the ozone layer. So it is really not so much related to
airglow as it is to the way of looking at what produces the color.
I think we are interested in finding out what causes the phenomenon,
rather than to attempting to learn anything new about the atmos-
phere.

Schirra - I think one of the reasons that I was so enthused about

tracking Mercury through these colors is that I am a fan of blue

colors. I grew up with a Maxfield Parish painting; if anybody
knows his colors of blues - they are fantastic. Gold blues,

electric blues, As a result, these caught my attention. I am

5
not that much of an artist or poet, but I was trapped with this
set of blues and I did expand on it at greath length, I thought.
These electric blues -

O'Keefe - (Interrupting) Subtraction is what it sounds like.
Schirra - So it connotes ozone in that sense - electric blue -
is exactly what it looked like, A very, very satisfying color.
Dr. Roman - Coming back to the color of Mercury, do I gather from
your comment that you feel it was distinctly yellow, yellowish
for example, or was it that you didn't pay a great deal of
attention to?

Schirra - No, Nancy, I would say it is very much like any other
star that I would see, rather than having a color. I didn't
detect a color.

Dr. Roman - Astronomers think of stars as having color.

Schirra - I have seen different-colored stars from earth-bound

environment and anticipated or, in fact,I was looking for different

colored stars or planets and did not detect any colors.

Roman - This means that your background was just a little too

bright to see colors.

Schirra - That, and the window itself just isn't an optimum plate -
series of plates - to look through. I insisted that what I really
felt had happened is that I was seeing no more than about Sth or 6th
magnitude stars:‘that the clouding of the windows, as a result of

the escaped rocket, reduced my visibility of the stars about one
Magnitude. In other words there wasn't gross clouding of the win-
dow. That is what I was trying to make clear by using magnitude of

stars as the yardstick in this case, I'll stick with that. This

6
is about the best way I can describe it. I could see more stars,
as Scott Carpenter described it, when back on the surface of the
earth and many, many more stars in an airplane cockpit than in
orbital flight.
Roman - You could see more in an airplane?
Schirra - Yes. So in the debriefing of the flight I stated that
this is not a problem for pursuit of Mercury flights. It is a
problem for pursuit of space observation and with the Gemini
vehicle, we have solved this by having the windows properly
covered and also we hope so - well, Gemini doesn't have an escape
rocket for one, which helps us, Now on Apollo, we are plus or
minus on whether we can afford the weight of having window
covers, but if we do, it does have an escape rocket. If we have
covers, then these windows should be protected. And better, be-
cause we will need the stars on this particular mission. But to go
back and try to cover the Mercury window at this late date would

be prohibitive hardware-wise and schedule-wise.

O'Keefe - What would you cover it with?

Schirra - First of all - for Gemini, we have no problem. There is
no tower rocket. With Apollo they had window shutters the last

time I saw the mock-up which is not at all static. It is quite
dynamic even though it hasn't flown. How this will be done I

don't know, but I think this is a requirement. I don't even think
it; I know it is a requirement for Apollo.

O'Keefe - You don't think there is a possibility of putting a thin -

say, some transparent grease over the window - which would come

off in the vacuum?
Schirra - This might be a way of doing it. Having it sublime

away or something of this order.

O'Keefe - That could be done. If that were done ...

Schirra - I definitely feel that this should not be a neglected
problem; if we, for example, do remove the window cover from the
Apollo command module, It definitely should have some type of
protection when the star rocket goes. This is going to be a
by-product of its own combustion, it won't leave marks on the
window, I saw marks on mine as well as a clouded effect and I
feel so strongly about this -- When I had the sun at oblique
angles shallow to the window I could see this film much as you
describe it. Smokers in the group will appreciate this. On the
inside of an automobile window, you can see the smoke condensa-
tion on there which you very rarely get washed off until you wash
the car yourself. You see this when you have light at very
oblique angles across this window, This is about the same type of
intensity - it is not enough to restrict your vision although it
does affect it at night. This is exactly why I make the point.

I think that is about the easiest analogy I can make for you.

Dr. Nordberg - You say this was on the Mercury window after the
exhaust,

Schirra - Yes sir, this is the result of this exhaust gas bathing
this window as the rocket lit and left almost instantaneously, but

the gas does form over it.

8
Nordberg - Could you, were you able to observe, during the orbital
flight any decrease in the film on the window, It may have evaporated
away, or did it just stay?
Schirra - I was hoping to see that and I did not observe a decrease.
This surprised me too. I would anticipate that that gas would sub-
lime away. I suspect that the vehicle itself - we are getting
into the fireflies again - but the vehicle itself is surrounded by
an environment. We have the same problem when we try to run a
capsule or spacecraft in an altitude chamber. It is outgassing
the water cooler systems and other components even in a man-
created vacuum and as a result we can’t maintain this vacuum
because it is creating an environment all the time. I think this
is what we have done in the Mercury spacecraft with the by-
product hydrogen peroxide gas and the water coolers ani this is
where I feel our firefly, frost particles come from, Did you
notice by. the way- getting into that, - that the particles were
observed almost immediately after I was in orbit? - I said, "I
see frost flakes."

Mr. Dubin -sYou were in sunlight at that time too. ...

Schirra - That's correct. This is my only definition of the

difference in the way the sunlight itself gets to where I was.
Meaning that at sunrise it goes through a lot of atmosphere,
and as I get into sun above my horizon, I have no atmosphere;
so then its white again.

Nordberg - This deposit is of great interest to us. That is

9
why I asked the question because we observed this on Tiros too.
One of the two cameras was just completely clouded for a few
hundred orbits and then gradually after a few hundred orbits it
improved a little bit.
Schirra - I need a little more flight time} I'm all for it.
Nordberg - We eliminated this by putting a sheet over it in
third stage and since then we have never had any trouble.
Schirra - Sure, that's it. I am sure this is something we
can't let rest. We've got to cover these windows to protect
them from clouding during the transition to where we are now
to space itself.
Dubin - Do you ever detect any gas around the vehicle? In sun-
light due to shadowing of the vehicle.
Schirra - No, I looked for that. The only vestige of something

e
around me were these particles as we have described them.

O'Keefe - Well, it is very helpful to know that they were seen

throughout the day.

Schirra - Yes, I think really what it depended on was how much
sunlight I had coming through the window. If it was really

bright within the vehicle, I didn't see them as well. If I got

an off-angle where the sun was fairly shallow in relation to my
window, I could then see thage particles; of course, up until my
local noon, I did not see them anyway.

O'Keefe - About this problem of condensation and the local environ-
ment you are speaking of, I think that someone investigated that at

the Manned Spacecraft Center. It is quite true that with an outflow

10
of gas like that the ambient pressure - the general ambient
pressure - is quite different from the pressure right around
your vehicle. I still wonder whether you can get the pressure
up around the vehicle for the level where condensation takes
place. I have been trying to persuade some people that the
condensation takes place before it leaves these ports of course

as it spreads out in space. The pressure is certainly much higher

around the bottom of the heat shield, but I do not know whether

that’ is right or not.

Shoemaker ~ Do we have any more questions on the airglow?

They are very useful.

Dr, Liddel - We have two problems here. One is the pressure and the
other is the rate of evaporation,

O'Keefe - That's true. Once formed, they may not sublime out.
Question is how were they formed,

Schirra - I think there is one thing that we might bring into this
before we leave it unless there is a separate question on it.

The green-yellow, almost a chartreuse, coloring of these particles,
I feel, did not permit you to see the edges of the particles as

well as they appeared when they were in the white band in the

sense of looking like frost particles. So they looked more like
blobs and this is typical of fireflies themselves, You can't define
the size of the blob you see as green-yellow, but if you see a snow-
flake, which is white, you can very easily see its edges in a sense.
Not that you focus on them but you can visualize that they have

edges. This is a point that I don't think I have made in the past,

ll
but’ I think this is basically why we refer to the white particles
as frost because it does remind us of this. This is what probably
tempts me to say that it has to be water.
Cameron - Do you think the chartreuse ones were maybe the ones that
Glenn thought actually glowed, didn't he? They were lighted
Wrong.
Schirra - I think - well this gets back to my opinion and I
saw myself on film yesterday at the press conference talking
about it and said that I guess we need some more opinions but we
have three opinions now and basically I put two together and made
my own, but the green I feel is strictly the case of the sunlight
going through this tremendous amount of atmosphere at sunrise.
What is left as a light spectrum is this green-yellow on these
particles. You can all explain this better than I can, I am sure,
but what gets through all this atmosphere would probably be this
green-yellow. I think that in a sense they are not self-illumi-

nated but they reflect as if they were self-illuminated.

O'Keefe - Well, if you pass sunlight through a thick layer of

atmosphere then, of course, what you will get will be a red - a

deep red - however, that doesn't necessarily prove that you are
wrong in what you are saying because the things would be illuminated
in two ways. They would be illuminated not only by the direct
sunlight, but also by the scattered light around the horizon

which’ you have photographed at sunrise and the combination of these
two colors might give you a chartreuse as you have said because it

is a double illumination. However, there is another possible

12
explanation. If it is really true that this chartreuse color
only turns up only at sunrise, we may be with the explanation
that Herzfeldt/put forward for it.
Schirra - This is the nitrogen effect?
O'Keefe - Yes,
Schirra - I would like to stamp that one out. We can't afford to
have nitrogen outgas in the vehicle. (Laughter) The only nitrogen
which we have stored aboard is that which pressurizes the hydrogen
peroxide system. If we lose any of that, this is almost fatal.
O'Keefe - Well, there is plenty of nitrogen in the atmosphere at
that level. Still -
Schirra - You mean in the external atmosphere?
O'Keefe - Yes. Ambient atmosphere.
Schirra - Fair enough, Well then, that paper - I was left with
the impression that the nitrogen came from the vehicle itself.
O'Keefe - I am sure that it didn't cross Herzfeld's mind.

Dubin - There's also nitrogen...

Schirra - Well, it read that way to me. I should say that I am

very conscious of what nitrogen does for me within the vehicle!

(Laughter) This is basically my control field.

Dubin - I was going to say there is also nitrogen absorbed in metals.. J

Schirra - The gaseous content of the vehicle is very carefully
measured prior to sealing up the vehicle for lift off. It is
purged and we go up to about 97 or 98 percent oxygen. Obviously,

there is not much left in the cabin, you can't get it all out because

17 Abstract published in Vol. 136, #3522, p. 1121, July 29, 1962 of

™ Science by Charles Herzfeld.

13
you just can't purge particles in the interior in that these are
angles and trap volumes, but I would suspect that we had a very
low order of nitrogen gas within the vehicle that could come out.
Now it can come out if the vehicle's leak rate - in the vehicle is
excessive ~ and in this one it was somewhat less than 600 cc.
I think it was about 500 -
Dunkelman - 588,
Roman - I think your suggestion, Larry, was that it would be on
the outside of the vehicle.
Schirra - That I hadn't had a feeling for and I suspect this is
the only way you could get it in contrast to getting it from

within. So I won't argue this point. I am well aware of the

fact that it could be adsorbed and then passed off in this

environment.

Roman - John, (to Dr. O'Keefe) is it obvious that sunlight coming
through in the upper atmosphere would be red if you are above

the dust layer?

O'Keefe - Well, when you look at the sun in the photographs

which were taken, it looks red,

Roman - I see.

Schirra - The sunset is red. Same old sun that we see here.
O'Keefe - Yes, but what you'd see on either side of it - flanking
it - is Maxfield Parish cloud, at least in the color photographs.
I think this is what Maxfield Parish went in for particularly.

He went in for very powerful colors - subtraction colors. Turquoise -

rather than the pastels, rather than colors of the spectrum.

14
Shoemaker ~ Any other items on airglow we should take up?
Schirra - We will bring up this other thing I saw - I guess?
Shoemaker - The cloud (bright area) you saw over Madagascar?
Schirra - Yes.
Dubin - I was wondering on these various effects on the horizon.
You'make some statements about the blue horizon--the different
colors.
Schirra - What time is this?
Dubin - This is at 06 44 GMT (See blue book, p. 104). (Now
Report of Third U. S, Manned Orbital Flight.)
Schirra - This was the beginning to what Mrs, Cameron has a sketch
of, I believe. ..,
Cameron - Actually you give two descriptions here, I believe
they conflict, I assume that one is an expansion of a part of
the other.
Schirra - It is, and as you can see, it's a time span here where
it obviously is changing as the sun is setting as well. Not
much in time, but my time was pretty fast in relation to sun-
sets, I guess,
Dubin - Question is what the heck did you really see?
Schirra - Maybe if I just read it back myself, I can expand
on it. I'll read it out loud. How's that? I guess we can
pick up right at 0604 33 and I say there is a nice interesting

horizon, which meant that I was captured by it. The sun was

off to the left and I would say about 40 degrees. This just

15
Meant that it was off to the left of my yaw angle - I was in
flight path in yaw at this instant of time - which means you
could determine where the vehicle was oriented and then also
get the sun-line in relation to the window,
Cameron - Incidentally, the sun must have been very close to
setting at that time, wasn't it?
Schirra - It was setting, in fact. This is where I went on,
There is a dark line at the surface of the earth, orange at
the clouds. Now there was a cloud horizon, as well, that I
could see. Then a light yellow, a light white, and then a
blue band. This was coming from the surface of the earth
going up. A very light blue and then I got all excited and
said that I had the planet Mercury in sight at this point.
Mercury obviously was in the black. It had not come down
into the Mercury set. If you want to describe it in the sense
of sunset, Mercury set. I think it deserves the term of having
the opportunity to set as well, I was coming up from the surface
of the earth towards the darkness of space and then I detected

Mercury where it belonged, trailing the sun.

Dubin - Well! The sun was off to your left about 40 degrees.

Schirra - As well as Mercury,

Dubin - In the same direction?

Schirra - It was trailing almost above the sun in this sense.
Which is where I had it plotted on the star chart. Then I

wanted to describe the blue band and I said that there is a

16
relatively dark blue band right at the surface of the earth,
Of course, the orange and light yellow was changing at this
point and I then came into seeing this dark blue band. In
other words, I had lost the orange cloud effect just above the
surface of the clouds, This was the same kind of red-orange
we typically see through the atmosphere on the surface of the
earth which is, of course, the atmosphere. I realize this cuts
out most everything but reds and yellow-orange. But the light
yellow wasn't at all unusual either; I had seen this in many
sunsets. The sun had set. I wanted to describe this blue band.
I realized I had gone through some 34 seconds. When I say
describing the blue band, it is some 30 seconds later. Took me,
say, 4 seconds to say that. Relatively dark blue band right at
the surface of the earth and a light blue band meaning a next
band above it; another dark blue band, a large white band which
is the airglow. This is the way I felt it should be. I have
not made a careful study prior to the time of the various layers
on the earth or above the earth. Then a deep black one and it

sort of goes from a grayish blue to a dense black, almost looks

like the underneath surface of a summer cumulo-nimbus effect,

where you have a nice bright earth and then you go into this
black cloud and then there is this roll cloud that precedes a
thunder storm and it's a very, very choppy underneath surface.
It looks very turbulent, to you. This surprised me. I

expected to see another sharp line and I did not, This is what

17
I was referring to here as the transition from the last blue
band I could see to the total darkness of space. I guess this
is the only way I can describe that. This was a surprise to me
to see this, really.
O'Keefe - Well, it is astonishing, isn't it?
Schirra - Yes, it is. I expected to see a nice, sharply delin-
eated arc, and this was not the case by any means.
O'Keefe - Whatever it was, it was turbulence?
Schirra - Yes, this is the way I would describe it. It has
to be or the light in a sense made it look turbulent. I
think you have all seen the base of a thunderstorm as it comes
towards you and the light starts diminishing rapidly as you get
a thunderstorm, Just because it is so thick and almost opaque
in contrast to sunlight that can get through. Then we see this
vortex effect underneath it and this is very much the way I
would describe it myself. This was the transition from visible
to no light. No sharp line. I think you probably have it
fairly well sketched right there.
Dubin - Have you seen the sketches? (Mrs. Cameron's sketches

of colored bands around the horizon.)

Schirra - No, I haven't.

O'Keefe - Why don't you take them around there, Mrs. Cameron ...
so we can get additions and corrections (to the drawings).
(Schirra and Cameron looking at the drawings)

Cameron - This is your first description (drawing shown to

Schirra) .0. This is the second description. ...

18
Schirra - Yes. Now as we progressed in time to the second
drawing, the sun has now really set and the reds and yellows
(in the drawing) are fine ... now just getting the afterlight
ooothat's the ragged effect I saw. ...
Schirra - This isn't as thick as that grey to black band
as I saw it. We are stuck with a small circle (radius of
curvature used in the drawing) and I had a big circle.
Dubin - Okay, could you re-draw it on the board the way you
saw it?
Schirra - All it is is a straight line with a slight curvature
to it. I had a broad angle of view, but the whole thing is
flattened out. I don't see that much curvature at all.
O'Keefe - (to Mrs. Cameron) Put in that remark about this
band is too narrow?
Schirra - This is too wide. (indicating drawing) It would be
the grey to black (band).
Shoemaker - It faded out more rapidly in proportion to the
white band?
Schirra - It was definitely not something you would like to
make with a compass.
Cameron - Narrower and wider ... I tried to indicate that, but

as to scale, I didn't ... I was just trying ...

O'Keefe - We made a first try at it ...

Schirra - (Reading in the Blue Book) "I will bring up the

fingertip light." This will clue you. This will make it

19
clear to you that the internal lighting was off inside the
vehicle. I don't know why I didn't bring that point out.
This reminds me that it was dark and it was 0605 52. I had
to see what time it was. We had this counter clock as you
know, and to see the numerals I had to bring my fingertip
lights up to see them, It was quite dark within the vehicle
and this is quite an advantage to this observation. Then I
say that Mercury is on the horizon and this meant that it was
just coming down through what I described going up, if you can
follow my directions here. This is where Mercury was as the
pointer or index as it passed through these layers. Now again,
we proceeded through time so that light patterns will change
and that's why these descriptions do conflict as we progress
on in time. I think this might explain why. As I come back
through with Mercury now setting these same light bands are
not the identical ones that I described previously and I used
the word "airglow" and even the way it came out in the tape
I said see the Mercury going through the - and I was searching
for a term and so I just said "“airglow" just so I wouldn't
have to get into a big discussion about what I was going to
report on. Actually, I could have said through the -- I was
searching for a term -- but this "airglow" I was using simply
as a term to describe what I was looking at. I could have said

through the lighted horizon.

O'Keefe - Twilight layer is probably a better way to say it.

Schirra - Very good, a better way of saying it.

O'Keefe - "Airglow" is a very complicated term. We don't know
what it is all about. That's what we are after. ...

Schirra - In fact, on occasion I have used airglow through
here just out of ignorance. I think what we all are trying

to do right here is to try and clear up some of this ignorance;
so we need more data, of course. Then,I say (reading from the
Blue Book again) "We'll see if she holds up," meaning, can I
track Mercury through all this? That was interesting in
itself, that I could, I thought.

O'Keefe - This was quite important. This was one of the
questions raised by Glenn on his flight whether some layers
are Opaque or not,

Schirra - I could track Mercury through all of these points

or layers.

Nicks - Does it change its apparent size like the sun when it
sets?

Schirra - I don't recall having observed this.

Roman - Did you see any additional stars ... the fact that it
has a finite disk (Mercury)?

Schirra - No, again the window cuts out the fun of that, I
think.

O'Keefe - No, you wouldn't see a disk. ...

Schirra - It would have been great to have had some magnifying

device at this point to make this observation. No, it just looked

like a star.

O'Keefe - I think when Nicks asked if the sun changed in
Size, he really - the sun doesn't change in size as it sets.
He meant change in brightness,

Schirra - Apparent size - not the size, but the illusion at
least. I've got to break off a second here. I don't recall
seeing many moon sets on earth. Have any of you ever seen a
good moon set?

Roman - Yes.

Schirra - You have to be on the West Coast to do it; but, of
course, I saw a moon set on this flight and that is why I
brought it up. To me, it was the first real good moon set

I had seen, (Laughter)

O'Keefe - There is a good solid reason for that. That is
that a full moon will set at sunrise. Not many people are
up at that time.

Schirra - I hope you have had a chance to see the photographs
I took of this moon set.

Gill -.No.

Schirra - There are two black and white sets of these. The

original prints were very good. I understand there is a lot

of halation around this. I definitely think you all should
get these out and examine them, Now the subsequent prints
were not very good. They were too fuzzy.

Gill - Who would have them?

22
Schirra - Paul Backer could trace them down at least.
He was the film-handler. He could chase them down,
O'Keefe - Minnaert has suggested that after moonset, that
there might be a lunar zodiacal light. (Minnaert, Light
and Color in the Open Air, p. 295.)
Schirra Oh.
O'Keefe It's a dim hope,
Schirra - Getting back to this light magnitude in relation
to stars is about 12 to 15 magnitude. I wouldn't even see
this. I suspect Gordon won't unless he just happens to look
out at the right time and has enough lighting. Now with
instrumentation we could detect it, but visibly with the
naked eye you can't detect because you can't see through the
window. You can't detect this low illumination level. I might

add that I saw something subsequent to the flight that really

flipped me. I was on route to the West Coast on a night flight

(commercial). I was sitting way in the back in the tourist
section in middle of a three-seater, and thought I was
anonymous, when the stewardess came roaring back and said
‘Cmdr. Schirra, would you come up front;" and out of my
obscurity I was drawn to the cockpit and I said to myself that
we've either lost a pilot or co-pilot. (Laughter) So I went
roaring up front and the passengers were looking with a

degree of apprehension, at least. I went up to the cockpit

and looked out and we were heading West just after sunset and a

23
blue scout had been launched from Vandenberg (AFB). It had
the most fantastic lighting I have ever seen anywhere. It
had the exhaust trail and above the horizon it had this
fantastic glow - ionization glow (like a vapor cloud) I
would describe it as - which would best pin down ~-resemble-
the zodiacal light if you ever wanted to do it. It hada
band across the horizon about 60 to 70 degrees and it went
right up the ecliptic and picked up the moon and the planets.
It was just amazing.
Shoemaker - How far could you trace it?
Schirra - I could see it right up to the zenith as much as I
could see out the cockpit. We were all oohing and ahing.
I think you have seen this same glow from a booster flight at
night, particularly if you can pick up a sunset or sunrise
when you get above the earth's shadow and get into the lighted
area where the booster is. There is a tremendous expansion wave
that's behind the vehicle and this is basically what it looks

like.

Dubin - These pictures of Glenn's Atlas flight show the same

thing. oo.

Schirra - I think it was mine you saw...

O'Keefe - What you saw from the cockpit - was it from the blue
streak or was it the zodiacal light?

Schirra - I think the two just drew it together and that it was
definitely stimulated by this blue streak as it went up almost

up the ecliptic in relation to the arc field of view.

24

O'Keefe - It is not a difficult thing to see the zodiacal light

under reasonably favorable conditions,

Schirra - No, I have seen it frequently, but not as brilliantly.
Gill - Have you seen it in Houston by any chance?

Schirra - I have seen it just flying at night. I haven't seen it
from Houston recently, no.

Gill - Well, this is the season to see it. You should see it...
about three-quarters of an hour after sunset,

Schirra - From an airplane, you can see it better than you can
from a Mercury spacecraft. You don't have this dimming of light
through your canopy as you do from the spacecraft. This is really
a spectacular sight. Of course, the pilots were so concerned
because they didn't know what it was. This was hundreds and
hundreds of miles away, and yet they felt they were in danger.
(Laughter) They wanted answers right away.

Gill - They got them, didn't they?

Schirra - Of course, you've heard that the whole West Coast was
enthralled by this sight. It was in the newspapers.

Roman - Speaking of the brightness of the zodiacal light,

Dr. Mulders, NSF, was in Chile at a high altitude last fall,

and he commented to me, that the zodiacal light was so bright
that he was able to see it from horizon to horizon without
difficulty.

Schirra - Amazing--horizon to horizon--I am not sure what we are

going to see at thousands of miles from earth. I suspect that

25
we are going to see a batch of clouds if it's lighted. (the
earth) That's really what I saw a lot of. I was just amazed.
Obviously, when I flew over Africa, it was loud and clear and
you would see this if you were looking at Africa from some
vantage point many, many miles away. I suspect that if you
looked at earth from a long distance away that there is so much
cloud cover that it might have an appearance much like Venus in
this sense.
Shoemaker - While we are on Africa, would you like to go on
and talk about the...(interruption)
Schirra - You can't match my blues. Maybe Parish could help ...
Nordberg - Does anyone have anything on the altitude, particular-
ly on that top that sort of turbulent thing?
Schirra - That's another one you should check into. Through
the trajectory tables, you should find my altitude. Now at
this point, I was just passed Indian Ocean ship as I recall.
O'Keefe - We've done all that. If you say when Mercury went
through that we will tell you what the height was. (To

Cameron) You have it?

Cameron - I have it. It's about 280 kilometers. Height of

the layers is about 66 kilometers. I only know the height
of his observation, not knowing the width of it.

O'Keefe - (to Schirra) But you made a mark when you went
through it. The first "time hack" was when you were going

through this turbulent area, right?

Schirra - Correct, that's when I came into it,

O'Keefe - What was the height of the layers at this time -

66 kilometers, is that right?

Schirra - Right, that's what I was saying. I hope we can
hold Mercury meaning that I'd like to see it’ go through this
and I did not know that I could, but obviously I proved that
I could; I did. This was quite a surprise. Didn't you say,
Jocelyn, that there aren't many people that have seen Mercury
sets?

Gill - Very true. Mercury, (the planet) period. Very few
people know that it exists.

O'Keefe - Can I point out that you used the word airglow just
in general terms, a faint, glowing light seen from the atmosphere
without your - What you called the airglow is not what is
technically know as the airglow.

Schirra - Yes, any time we use airglow I don't use it as we
professionally talk about airglow. I was using it merely as
an escape clause.

Dunkelman - There is one other point there. One isn't sure
just in what plane these phenomena took place. They may have
been ahead or behind this plane (of the spacecraft). We have
to think of this... The 66 kilometers might indeed be reflected
as something that had been before this point, you see.
Nordberg - (Comment inaudible).

Schirra - My local vertical would be this hand as I show it

and, of course, 40 degrees to the left where the sun and

27
Mercury were traversing was in a plane something like this.
This is your point I think, Larry, Isn't it?
Dunkelman - That's one ...
Schirra - So they come down this way which mathematically isn't
hard to solve, but you should consider this.
Dubin - This plane may vary a certain amount and it is very
difficult to know which way.
Schirra - The spacecraft at this point was under attitude
control and was fairly tight in a sense,

Roman ~- I think Larry's point is that though we don't really

know if we are ... if we are actually taking a traverse straight

through the atmosphere, it may be something in front, a tangent
line, or behind it.

Dunkelman - The first thought is to put a line right’ through
there, and at this point this may be on the plane but it may
not be that. Some may be ahead or behind, or both. ...

Schirra - In other words, these layers in this sense could

be all staggered out and this one stacked like a bunch of

steps in a sense,

Dubin - And they could be higher in altitude than a simple right
angle projection.

O'Keefe - It's quite safe.

Schirra - I was looking at two dimensions in a sense.

Cameron - The right angles of projection and this is the

twilight zone of the spectrum,

29

Schirra And the rare occasions that I've had the timing for this.

O'Keefe There is a nice Delta Flight from Washington down to
Houston. The thing goes exactly toward the sun - you can't miss it,
Cameron You'll have to go to the cockpit.

Schirra - Hmm - You have to make the Delta Flight, in this particu-
lar case, from Dallas to Los Angeles. I passed Albuquerque.
Shoemaker - This peculiar thing you saw over Africa - maybe you could
tell us about it.

Schirra - That, as I have said, was my biggest surprise. I

talked to most of you at great length about things we would hope

to see or expect to see. This I had no prior knowledge of and I
basically can say that I was "sucked" in and originally called this
airglow, if you recall. I guess it is best to refer back to the record
again. This was 5S hours and 20 minutes.

Cameron - That's the time I got from you. The only thing I

notice from the script was that you said Glenn was asking you when
you were passing over California if you had seen what the airglow
was. Then you said something about you were surprised at how high
it was.

Schirra - This was the same phenomena, I had come back from there,
I think, isn't that correct? Let's see.

Dubin - The Indian Ocean.

O'Keefe - David Stern at Goddard predicted that you would

something very unusual in this flight before you went up. ...

Schirra - Really?

30
O'Keefe - Yes, he gave me a note. I was supposed to pass that
note down to the Manned Spacecraft Center; I don't think I did.
I think it's my fault. (Ed. copies were forwarded to MSC.)
Roman - What is this you are referring to?
O'Keefe - There is a very strong magnetic anomaly in this region,
and this is where ...
Dunkelman - I think the fact that Schirra had not heard of this makes
the observation even better scientifically.

Schirra - Hmn,

O'Keefe - Quite exciting about this thing, but exactly what region

is Cdr. Schirra talking about? ...He's talking about the South Atlantic
- and the South Atlantic was in sunlight. This is probably as close
to it as we could get to be in darkness,

Schirra - I think what happened is I looked out as I was drifting
and this happened to be in the right attitude to see this, which
probably meant that I was looking toward the North although I can't
confirm this.

Cameron - You said something about you would judge that the width
was about a fourth of your window.

Schirra - Yes.

Cameron - Can you say how far - anything about how high it was

from the horizon?

Schirra - I was surprised when I saw what I thought were city lights
and they turned out to be stars below this thing. As a result, I

was confused in the sense that I wasn't then looking for yardsticks.

31
Cameron - Was this a patch, or do you think there was a layer
there?
Schirra - It was a layer across my whole visible horizon. It
wasn't just a blob in other words.
Cameron - And is that the only time you saw it?
Schirra - That is the only time that I recall ever having seen it,
At one particular point - Was it at 5 hours 20 minutes (in the

record)? I don't seem to refer to it too well in here,

Dunkelman - We had to find it.

Schirra - You had to dig it out?

Dunkelman - We had to dig it out from your self-debriefing later.
Roman - Was there any color apparent in this case?

Schirra - I would like to refer to it, Nancy, as a little smog
color, having a little brown in it. Sort of Brownish gray - rather
it wasn't black or white. It was definitely toward the brown smog thing.
I'm sure you have had the unfortunate privilege of letting down in
Los Angeles and seeing what smog brown is.

Roman - Right.

Schirra - This isn't what you would see from the surface of Los
Angeles, but above it when you look into this. Sort of a dusty
color in a sense. If you'd like to use that term, I don't like to
use that term because if you have seen a dust cloud you've seen
more solidity to it in your mind at least. I don't want’ to give
you that picture. Definitely a fog effect rather than seeing

particles. I think of it that way.

32
Dunkelman - We are here to hear yours and I think we should figure out
some more of this. I don't want to inject my thought into this, but
I was trying to quote you in saying that it is brownish smog layers

and wasn't sure how to define it.

Schirra - Yes, This is dirty brown, not a pleasant brown, not one

you would like to see. Sort of like a tattle tale brown instead of a
tattle tale gray.

Cameron - Venus was just off the edge of it. I have the report of it.
Schirra - Let's see, where are we there?

Cameron - I don't think you are saying anything about that. I was
wondering if you noticed Venus at that time?

Schirra - There was some point in here where I miscalled Venus or
Mercury, I forget which, but this is wrong. I told them to correct

it and they never did. But anyway this is what I did say. I think
you could disprove me very easily, because it just couldn't be there.

I forgot which one it was I referred to. Venus and the moon were
always together is the whole point, and they were to me in a horizontal
line which gave me a good reference.

O'Keefe - Cdr. Schirra, there are some important points here. First

of all, of course, both Glenn and Carpenter saw stars underneath the
ordinary airglow layer.

Schirra - Yes, I remember.

O'Keefe - So it clearly can't be seen and one would expect that anyway.
Schirra - I would say that this is substantiated by my report of

seeing Mercury as it passed through these layers as Mercury set which

33

would prove that the stars well could be seen going through the

same,traverse. This thing I saw - let's just call it the smog belt -

on this southern pass, to go back and recap the sensation that
brought this to mind which is not brought out here other than the
fact that I can identify what I saw, I was coming over a land area,
(I think I better take a second and break out my orbital map which

I have here.)

O'Keefe - If you have the tape, we might replay that.

Schirra - This would be better because some of the nine hours

there, I have not identified carefully enough, and I should: have,

by going back over the tape and these areas of interest - I think we
should listen to the original tape again. Let's get down to where

we were.

Cameron - Larry (Dunkelman) has listened to it at the Cape, I think.
Dunkelman - Did you see what I call normal airglow at night?

That is the soft white band.

Schirra - Yes, I did.

Dunkelman - All right, yes, that's important because I think’ later it
will help.

Cameron - Was that the thing you saw?

Schirra - This is distinctly different and this, I think, we identified
in our earlier discussion (speaking of the use of the term airglow).
Dunkelman - Fine.

Schirra - I had moonlight as well, but I could definitely see this faint

white effect.

Dubin - Was there any color whatever in it?

Schirra - In the airglow that I saw? No, other than during sunset
times where you would have sunlight itself.

Dubin - No color whatever?

Schirra - I think of white as being all colors and you can see

I've been trapped with painting a few times. This patch was denser
as you came into the middle of this belt. It definitely had to have
a light stimulus to it or I wouldn't have seen it. I was well

aware of this and thought this as I saw it. The initial impression
that brought to my attention is, first off, and this is the liability
we have; we're wanting to see something that needs to be seen with
the naked eye when the inside of the vehicle is dark,

Cameron - In the patch did you notice any variation in color either

horizontal or vertical?. Or was it all one?

Schirra - The airglow now we are discussing?

Cameron - The patch over (Madagascar).

Schirra - Oh, this patch, it seemed ooo YOU can't keep track of whether
you are over. land or water continually and time is progressing fairly
rapidly; for example, on this particular period where we are talking

in terms of 5 hours and 20 minutes, going back just a few minutes, I

am over Africa because I had left the southeast coast of Africa, in
other words, Durban and this is the place I had one time in my mind
wanted to see a flare and I did see cities and I know I saw Capetown
which was in the clear. I talked to the Ambassador from that section
of Africa when we were at Goddard for the Sth year celebration of

satellites, and he said, "Oh, I wish we had known that, because

ao

everybody thinks that all you see is Perth! (laughter) Well,

we see a lot of other places as well." To go back, I was trying

to re-establish this phenomenon in my mind so I had passed over
Africa and I was darkened within the vehicle. I was drifting.

As I was drifting - we like to say that we can see a city because
the people of the city get quite excited about it as we know Perth
did - and I was proceeding across the Indian Ocean drifting, so my
attitudes cannot be defined, I wanted to say to myself, oh, I see
some more cities below me. Now I wasn't convinced in my mind that

I was over the Indian Ocean, yet with the attitudes not carefully
defined, I might well have seen cities. These I said, ah, those cities
are quite constellation setups. They looked like constellations,
Then I said, my gosh! they are constellations. They are stars

and this was below what I then, in my mind at least, had planted

as airglow. Again, a lump term, meaning a lighted horizon, and I
looked above this brown smog effect and saw more stars again. Then
I could see through this brown effect, stars, but they were dimmed
considerably by it. Now, I did not have the opportunity in that

the attitudes were dynamic to trace an individual star or planet
through this particular area. I wasn't at this point too interested
in knowing what constellations I was looking at. In drifting flight,
you don't really have a requirement to navigate, that is, to know
where you are in relation to a star field or surface.

Roman - So you don't know what you were looking at?

Schirra - So any particular star or constellation, I could not

identify at this time. If I needed to, I would then have to destroy

36
my dark adaptation and light up my star chart and then identify

these things. This is the problem we have.

O'Keefe - One of the classic problems in astronomy - one of the

solutions for it is to illuminate with a red light, because you

don't destroy the dark adaptation so quickly.

Schirra - This is why we went to these fingertip lights which are red.
I started out, and this might interest you, I went to the planetarium
in Chapel Hill and took both gloves with me. One had white lights

and one had the red lights. This was my test of these lights. We
used them while working in the planetarium. We lit up the white
lights and the whole dome was just brilliant white. These are tiny
little peanut bulbs, really minute. This was the last time I used
those white lights. That very day - they were painted red as a result
of this. You need very, very low orders of light to -

Dunkelman - I had the impression the first time we talked about this
that you had not seen any stars through the patch, this brownish
patch, but you feel that you had seen -

Schirra - Yes sir, this is what I am trying to do; recreate the scene.
That is why. I went back to coming off Africa. Having looked for the
lights, and having seen Capetown, I then felt that I was seeing more
city lights and then I was so surprised to realize that these were
stars. Now this only means that I was not pitched down enough to
really see the earth itself. So this means that it was quite high.
Roman - Do you feel that you were looking at the airglow layers at
sunset or might you have been looking down at this sort of tangentially

as you are at some angle?

37
Schirra - I feel that I was looking up at it now in relation to my
local horizon.
Roman - You were actually looking up at it? Have you any idea how high
it was above the apparent horizon at that time?
Schirra - That is where I am in trouble, Nancy, because there is no
direct repeated knowledge of what this attitude is,
Roman - Well, the other question is ...
Schirra - But I saw a good batch of stars below it which meant that my
axis had to be fairly well above the horizon.
Roman - Any structure either turbulent or wave-like?

Schirra - No, this was a very soft - we best describe this in clouds

as being a cirrus layer rather than a cumulus layer; a stratus would be

a better term, I think.

Nordberg - Sort of diffuse?

Roman - I am still not quite sure I have the answer to my question then.
I'm not a meteorologist.

Schirra - If I were to do it, I'd take a chalk eraser and just’ make a
streak across the blackboard, it would be more intense in the center
of the eraser and then diffused as I got -

Roman - But no other structure?

Schirra - No other structure.

Roman - The reason I am asking this is that it sounds as if it might

be related to some other equatorial red airglow which has been’ observed
from the ground. This has a distinct wave structure.

Schirra - I see. No, I did not see the permanent wave effect or the

38
mackerel effect that you see in clouds. This is very much a -
well, I would say if you really wanted to do it - well, do it in
water colors rather than chalk.

Nordberg - Did it cover your entire field of view?

Schirra - It covered my whole field of view, yes. That's where I
"suckered-in" thinking that I was looking at "airglow-" what we

have used now - I think you understand how I have used airglow and
that there were cities below it and stars above it. Then, these
cities were defined rapidly as stars and then I -

Dubin - You actually saw no horizon then? And you saw none of the
regular airglow?

Schirra - No, I could not see any vestige of the surface of the earth,

meaning the true airglow in this sense. :

Dubin - What you saw then were some of the bands with stars above and

below - you remember how high up you were looking?

Schirra - No. If I had not had the fetish of conserving fuel in this
drifting period - was most important - not only conserving fuel, but
to see what effects the vehicle would get while it drifted over a period
of time; in other words, what this minute atmosphere might do to the
vehicle, whether it would spin it up or slow it down or what have you,
I could have picked up my attitude just by pitching down and picking
up the surface of the earth. But then I would have destroyed the
period of time that we had been drifting to see if the vehicle
attitude had been affected by the orbital period.

Roman - For something like that, would it be desirable to carry a

small mirror, something like a woman's pocketbook mirror, which you

could look down at the different angles.

Schirra - We had a mirror on there. This permitted me basically to
look toward the heat shield. Something like a rear view mirror,
except it was a front view mirror in Mercury. But in any case,

you almost need - we need something like a dental mirror to move
around. I think again you get in trouble with a mirror; I con-
sidered this. In fact, I had a mirror on my hand which was a flat
plate much like the woman's cosmetic mirror. It was about the same
size, and when you use a mirror you lose so much just by the fact
that you change distances. Your image has been ranged differently.

So I found that I didn't have any luck at all.

Tennyson - It was just your disorientation.

Schirra - That itself was another problem, (Cameron showing Schirra

a drawing)

Cameron - I have a drawing here of what I think you saw out your
window at 5S hours 20 minutes,

Schirra - Oh, really, I'd like to see that, yes. ...

Cameron - It's just the star chart. I tried. ... I think this is where
you were, well, I made a tracing of the thing and slid it (the plastic
slide which represents the capsule window) up (on the star chart)

here - here's the horizon and I tried to guess where you might have
been, and I put the width about ... (showing Schirra) you thought it
was -

Schirra - Very good. But the thing is you see I could be tilted as

well in roll and it would move this field--see what I mean?

40
Cameron - I was wondering if you recognized this pattern here that

you saw below it?

Schirra - What really flipped me--this is where I got in trouble--

I said something about the Pleiades and I know I could not see those.
Cameron - You see according to this the Moon was up at the top (of
the window) and Venus was off to the left. Did you see them?
Schirra - I did not see them during this period, no.
O'Keefe - Where is Delphinus? Delphinus is somewhere.
Roman - I was just thinking about that. ...
Cameron - Well, he's in Ophiuchus and Hercules and --

(General discussion which is inaudible)
Schirra - Delphinus does look something like the Pleiades in a sense,
yes.
Roman - It's a little larger, but I'm sure that...
Schirra - At one time I tried to trace this down and see what’ I really
was looking at and I frankly have not done it. This is typical of
everything we do, we always rushed into something else.
O'Keefe - (to Cameron) Can you find Delphinus? It's right next to
the (Northern) Cross.
Cameron - I don't see it. I don't think it's on here. ...
Schirra - Did I identify - when I said Aldebaran, I may well have been
talking about...
Cameron - There's a Norton (Star Atlas) in my bag - maybe I'm - if
you'd hand it to me - maybe I've got the wrong page--I don't know -
I don't know why - he's got it there very clearly.

O'Keefe - You have Ophiuchus, Hercules?

(Conversation inaudible)
Schirra - I used to carry my little star chart slide rule thing
around with me.
Roman - Alternatively, there are some (star) clusters - well, if
it's the Pleiades, it would be well enough defined and you wouldn't
confuse it - there are some clusters in a star field which at’ first
glance give you the same haziness that you get from a cluster like
the Pleiades.
Cameron - It's the wrong direction, of course.
Roman - Well, but he is down in the Scorpio region if you think of it.
Schirra - One of those things I do recall very vividly was that I
talked about Aldebaran and it just couldn't have been there at the
Cime Li. ses
Gill - 0, well maybe you didn't have the Pleiades then.
Schirra - I know it wasn't. It wasn't the Pleiades.
Gill - Because you've got Orion here. Orion, the Pleiades and

Aldebaran go nicely together.

Schirra - They sure do, but they shouldn't be there.

Gill - But those were the wrong ones. (Laughter) They can't be there.
Dunkelman - I think Voas corrected that at that one time, You see
Aldebaran wasn't there.

Schirra - Yes, this is the liability you get into if you don't really
know your attitude; with this star chart you can sweep out a whole
new segment of the sky.

O'Keefe - Why can't you have seen Aldebaran and these other things?

Were they above the horizon?

42
Schirra - I don't think they are in this area. We have to expand
this star chart. Now if I were yawed around 90 degrees, this star
chart is absolutely worthless because this only goes a plus or
minus 60 degrees.
O'Keefe - I know, I know ...
Schirra - Maybe I could have ...
O'Keefe = But, your flight path did go over Aldebaran, Orion -
the plane of the orbit.
Schirra - As I recall, and my memory of course, is suffering
from the time span (which has elapsed since the flight on October ¥&
1962.) As I recall, Orion was.on the daylight side, you see it's...
Roman - As I say, I was going to say that Orion was actually very
late - just before dawn - if it were up at all.
Schirra - Physically it was impossible to see - here is the constella-
tion Orion way down here - in time, this is on my daylight side.
Roman - I would think that Aldebaran would be much the same problem,
Cameron - Just the same thing.
Schirra - It is right in this same family, of course,
Roman - What time of night was this? Can you give me any idea

of the distance between sunlight and sunset?

Schirra - That's why I am perfectly convinced that I could not

possibly see anything associated with the constellation Orion or
Aldebaran, With this star chart, Nancy, what we do is have a
time margin. (Looking at the chart.) Now Orion down here is
actually in my local daylight. It just was impossible for me to

see it at this point way back here. It was occluded frankly by the

surface of the earth; physically, I just couldn't see it.

Roman - That's what I meant when I said at best you-d see those just
before sunrise--if at all at this time of year.

Schirra - Right. It was just impossible for me to see it at this
point way back here, so it was occluded by the surface of the earth,
frankly, I just couldn't - physically I couldn't see it. What
really would be fun, by gosh, would be to go back up and have Tony
Jenzano (Director, Morehead Planetarium) lay this out in the planetarii
Gill - Yes, yes, you ought to be able to solve that.

Schirra - I would be able to tell exactly what I saw. I'll do it -
That's the way to solve this because then I can get the whole star
field, the complete celestial heaven at this time and space. And

then we can make some points. I think one of you should go there

with me so we can have this pinned down. I think we should lay

this out. He (Jenzano) can lay out the whole flight plan.

Gill - To get it pinned down.

Roman - I would say here that Arcturus or Antares could have been con-
fused for Aldebaran here.

Gill - Absolutely. Those would be good candidates.

O'Keefe - Let's not let this point go. Who should go?

Shoemaker - I think we should plan to do this.

Schirra - I think this is the way to answer this rather than trying

to beat it to death. I'1l bet I'll be able to give you a whole bunch
of information in there (at the planetarium).

O'Keefe - Should it be you, or Jocelyn?

Gill - It depends on when it comes off - what time it comes off.

44
Shoemaker - Why don't we say we'll plan on this and then we can make
the arrangements --
Schirra - I am afraid that I can't do it rapidly, but I'd say the
first part of April would be okay.
Shoemaker - Jocelyn, would you like to take this on to set it up and
follow it through?
Gill - Certainly.
Schirra - I would like to nail this one down. It has been bothering
me for a long time and I just don't seem to be getting any answers
that I would like to have as well.
Gill - It is possible to have hindsight here. In other words, we can
reconstruct the crime and it is worth doing, I think.
Dunkeiman - I am glad you mentioned that you could see some: stars
dimmed through this patch because-if you don't see any,-the patch
turns out to be extremely bright.
Dunkelman - It's about 300 times higher than what the normal airglow
(seen) edge-on is.
Schirra - Well, it wasn't dim by any means.

Dunkelman - It wasn't dim - the answer I get is that it is about

3 ergs/cm2/sec which is extremely bright and its structure is extremely

high. It is about three hundred times brighter than the normal air-
glow. I think we can "home-in" on this brightness rather nicely
because, if you saw color, you know it is a dirty brown, but if it
was color, that does require at least 50 to 100 times more than the
normal night airglow.

Schirra - That's why you were asking me earlier was there a color

in the airglow and I did not see it?

Dunkelman - We are trying not to - (influence your reply).

Schirra - Playing one (response) against the other is indeed a good

way of doing it.

Dunkelman - Another think is that this was indeed brighter.

Schirra - But, well below. ...

Dunkelman - It is possible that the normal airglow was there -

but you didn't see it?

Schirra - It was well below my field of view though.

Dunkelman - But are we sure? I assumed that it was well below, too,
butecs

Schirra - Yes. I saw what amounted to a clear starfield below this...
Dunkelman - About how many degrees worth though?

Schirra - I was just trying to think - Well, the window itself -

I'm just trying to think what I can see degrees-wise-this is -
Cameron - Thirty degrees.

Schirra - It was roughly thirty degrees,

O'Keefe - But there is a trap here because that window shapes out

at such a steep angle - that if you attempt to estimate height by
estimating portions of the window--

Schirra - Oh, no, I wasn't doing that. All I am trying to say is
that in the window - included in the window - let's forget this smog
band, it were stars only, it was below the window which would be the
earth, There was no horizon and even if I could have been inverted,
we could just say that the window would be this way. There was still

no earth vision, nothing of earth I could see, including airglow or

46
anything else. So I was strictly looking, if you could almost
say, I could even be looking straight up, which I know I wasn't.
The stars were equally bright and equally in number almost on
either side of this band.

Dubin - It was about through the middle of the window?

Schirra - That is correct. I went even as far as to say that it
wasn't a third of the window and then I modified this down to a
fourth, but it was more than a fourth and less than a third. This
means, in any case, that it's approximately ten degrees thick and
this is a very rough estimate.

O'Keefe - It wasn't the Milky Way?

Schirra - No. No, I like to look at the Milky Way so I've seen

" LAT

it enough to say "no,
O'Keefe - Because you were facing according to your picture to - well -
no - Sculptor, Fornax - no -

Roman - The Milky Way in that part of the sky, should have a very
distinct rift down the middle, it wouldn't be brightest to the center
and shading off.

Schirra - Yes, in fact, if I recall from the way we ran the planetariun,
the Milky Way was almost on my horizon.

Dubin - How long can you see this by the way?

Schirra - We can do this too, John. They have the Milky Way projected

on this chart. It is a very fine tool, I might add, particularly when

you want to reconstruct the crime.

Gill - Might be very good practice afterwards for the pilot to go

47
back to the planetarium (to reconstruct his flight path.)...
Schirra - I sure wish I had thought of this a long time ago when I
was fresher on this.
Gill - It would fix things in your mind too - you'd be able to see them
again right away to pin them down.
Dubin - How long did you see this?
Schirra - I would not say seconds, I would say minutes,
Nordberg - Did this go away simply because of your progression in
orbit or because of your drifting?
Schirra - I think more because of the drifting, perhaps.
Dubin - Did you see the stars through it?
Schirra - There again, I didn't have time to track stars through it.
When I say minutes, I don't mean a whole bunch of minutes, I mean
one or two or three minutes.
Dubin - Yes, but do you know whether you saw stars moving relative to
the band?
Schirra - No, they weren't. It wasn't relative to the band.
That's a good question, now that you bring it up.
Dubin - In other words, the stars seemed to stand still.
Schirra - The band and the stars were planted together, much the same
way as you would see the Milky Way in a sense. That's a very good

point.

O'Keefe - You saw a bunch of things there. It might have been Aldebaran

or it might have been Antares.
Schirra - I suspect that is what I did see at Antares or Alpheca,

and I think that is in that same spectrum there. I think rather

48
than beat this any further, it's circumbent on us to go to the
planetarium and really nail this down. All I have to do is just
take this window box we have and just move it around and - ah ha -

there it is,

Dunkelman - Something we would like to know is the dimming effect.

~Schirra - Uh huh.

Dunkelman - You say that this patch was quite bright, that's one thing.
and then was it quite bright because it appeared bright or because

there are many, many fewer stars. This is the question we have to
answer,

Schirra - Right. You know what went through my mind when I finally
realized what I was looking at? I was livid about the fact that I

had the periscope. Absolutely livid, because I would have shot up a
whole roll of film right on that (using uv spectrograph). (Laughter)

I was fighting for that thing and that's why you can look through and

I make perisocpe sound like a dirty word. All through here the word
periscope is shortened to four letters practically. (Laughter)
Shoemaker - Why don't we go on. Jocelyn, why don't you get together
with Cdr. Schirra and write a conclusion on this.

Schirra - We'll set up a rendezvous here.

Shoemaker - I think we have covered quite a few of the remainder of the
questions partly in discussion. I would like to go back to dark-
adaptation here which is the next question. You have talked about it
and let's see whether there are any points that we haven't covered. The
question is would you tell us when you think you were best dark-adapted?

Was there any time during flight when you employed only red light in the

capsule?

Schirra - We have answered that with the fingertips.

Shoemaker - Did the light of the "time-correlation clock" shine in
your eyes throughout flight?

Schirra - The answer is no. They put in a switch to turn that off and
I turned it once and it was never turned on again. This was a very
great annoyance. This was my prediction that I would turn it off

and never turn it on again.

Gill - You were responsible for having the switch put in, weren't
you?

Schirra - Yes, I went through some very careful studies on the darkness
of this interior. I ran a special test at the Cape and it is amazing
how much light comes in there. John and Scott were surprised when

I told them this. Scott came back from his flight furious about this
time-correlation clock light. So I put in a switch-in-series and
just clicked it off as soon as I got to the switch.

Gill - Good for you,

Schirra - It was the first time it was dark outside, frankly, and
that was the end of that light. (Laughter) The cabin lights are
tube lights. They leak like mad. Just terribly. So I turned

those off as well when I wanted darkness. . Then I had pure darkness.
The only light I could create then were the fingertip lights. When I
blacked out that capsule, it was black dark other than when I needed
to see something with the fingertip lights. This is where our

crutches - as I described the map, the time and the star charts

50
became a liability, because we had then to bring on light again
(I brought on the finger tip lights to do this). Gordon knows how
strongly I feel about the star chart device. This is a valuable tool,
But it required two tools and a slider. Actually, two tools, with
sliders on each to use them. I had to take one tool which gave me
a reference in the time that had elapsed to come back to the star chart
which had a reference for one time - I think it was an hour's worth,
So I had to come over here and compute, For example, say I had 5 hour

and 20 minutes, so I'd run down 5 hours and 20 minutes and look across

and this is equivalent to say 53 minutes. So then I would say, Ah,

53 minutes; so then I would race over here and set the little window
thing on the index of 53 minutes and this thing is floating around
and I would stamp it off and get it out of the way. This is quite
a chore. It really is. So now we have included this on the flight
plan itself, what index of the star chart to use. So we have
Simplified this task quite a bit.

Cameron - As far as the star charts are concerned, fluorescence --
Roman - Suppose you had an ultra violet lamp in the capsule -
Schirra - If you kept it up?

Roman - That's what I was going to suggest --(fluorescent paint on
charts) Not depending on storing it up and letting it go down
afterwards.

Gill - You mean keep it on?

Roman - Well, depending on which looks more desirable. But

you could set that at a level where it would not blind you and

and you could see what you needed on the chart,
Schirra - Now this could be practiced in a planetarium,

O'Keefe ~- There are plenty of fluorescent inks.

Schirra - This star chart thing was a real problem even to get it

to the degree of refinement that I had.

Gill - It has a white background now?

Schirra - We had to take the surface and sand it in a sense to get it
non-reflecting, because that was a problem.

Dunkelman - I want to caution you on that ultra violet light, though.
It has to be very carefully designed, because if just a wee bit

of 3615 leaks out of it; your eyeballs fluoresce. It must be
carefully done.

Schirra - I've become very interested in this as a problem in that

on the Apollo mission, where you will need to find particular stars,
we should have some kind of star map that you can see without
blinding yourself. Those fingertips to me were awfully bright.
Roman - You can't turn it down?

Schirra - No,

Gill - You must have been well dark-adapted?

Schirra - Yes, that's right. I feel very strongly about this
dark-adaptation, by the way. I have felt this way about this ever
since I have been involved with this. As a night carrier-pilot, it
was always a problem as you know. We would sit in the ready room
with red lights on and red goggles on and we then would go roaring up
to flight deck and there would always be somebody there with a white

light to shine right in your face.

Dunkelman - The Navy has done this very carefully.

Schirra - It can be destroyed very rapidly. It turns out quite
frequently when you are in a cockpit and you're time-critical,

more so than when you are on a carrier deck for a night launch

than when you are on the pad. Things are in a frantic tempo.

You make a very rapid checkout of the cockpit and you really don't
care about light adaptation. You just want to be sure that everything
is in its proper position. So all of a sudden--boom--you are shot off
into the black and surprisingly you are very well adapted. I feel--

I know Scott has made a test on this--I think you come down to a very
rapid adaptation in seconds and then you progress getting better
dark-adapted over many, many minutes. I know this has been documented.
It is not worth trying to adapt to this exponential curve that you are

trying to get hold of.

Gill - Five minutes certainly helps a great deal.

Schirra - I have said this in the past, for example, if it were

night outside right now, we could step outside that door. With this
lighting you have in here, you can see outside this door (assuming
you are looking at the celestial night). You can see more than I
could see out of the window of the capsule with perfect adaptation.

I have done this. I have been in a lighted room since the flight

and have stepped outside. Now we have done this frequently at the
various control stations around the net. I did this at Guaymas

which you well know is a tremendous place to look at stars. I walked
out of a room just as lighted as this and got outside and boom, I saw

more than I could see in the capsule.

53
Cameron - I saw the zodiacal light once doing that in Chicago,
I came out of a lighted building. It was the first time I had
seen it. It was in a part of the sky where I didn't expect to see it.
Schirra - I think that our test, frankly, that have been conducted
to determine dark adaptation are not done well enough. I don't
think we can really justify how fast we adapt by the tests we have
run. I have yet to see that quantitative analysis made that should
be made. Intuitively, I feel that I adapt faster than the test
has ever proven to me. We had very complicated systems, such as that
at Pensacola where you pick up the horizon and objects, trucks and

airplanes and ships,--I'm sure you remember this routine--and I

never was sympathetic to this study. I think there is a better way

of defining it, however, by having you in an opaque room or rather
going from a lighted room into an opaque room seeing what can you See.
Have these measured light sources there and then identify them as
rapidly as you can. Of course, you've got to keep identifying
because you are adapting all the time.

Tennyson - Is it correct then that this window of ours (Vicor
window) has never really been nailed down as far as transmissivity
is concerned.

Schirra - It has been carefully nailed down, I understand.

Roman - Yes, but not under quite the flight conditions,

Schirra - Well, I was carrying this photometer, and did make some
measured readings on some objects, but this comes back to the photo-

meter check on Aldebaran. This comes back to what I really made

54

it on. I think they are trying to trace that through. It wasn't
Aldebaran, that's for sure.
Dubin - You say that you never saw your fluorescent numbers on
your watch?
Schirra - No, I did not. This bothered me.

Dubin - Did you look at it?
Schirra - Yes,
Dunkelman - Is this some watch that requires exposure to light for
awhile?
Schirra - Correct. There is another answer to this. The time
function, meaning just running time, has the fluorescent, but the
elapsed time that I used on this watch is just black and white.
I wanted badly to get at least the hands coated and this is a real
chore, Very few people do this for you. I would have liked very
much to have had this done, but couldn't get it.
Dunkelman - I would sure like to see the CIC lighting people
have a chance to put their two cents into this whole thing about
the lights, for Apollo or something like that.
Schirra - I have gone on record saying that Gemini will:not fly
until I personally run a lighting mockup on that vehicle as well
as on Apollo. There are many people who know how strongly I feel
on this subject.

Gill - Very good. Very good.

Schirra - What I'm getting at is, if you can get the light out

of the vehicle, you don't need to spend a lot of time adapting.

Gill - Right.

S5
Nordberg - I am curious if you Wad a chance to observe variations
of brightness around the horizon; around as far as possible
(during) both in day and night.
Schirra - Again, the field of view isn't that big. I know just
what you are asking for. I didn't take the liberty of making
these, what would amount to, large yaw changes. I did not have
the opportunity to observe that transition. The field of view I
had did not show these various changes.

O'Keefe - You see, this is like 30 degrees, that's half a radius. I don't

think he could see much more than you could see overhead at night.

Schirra - Yes.

O'Keefe - It means that if he doesn't see patterns in the airglow
from a single place at night, unless he has the freedom to yaw all
around, he doesn't have the opportunity of tracing out the rather
large patterns which must be in the airglow. They are of the order of
a thousand miles in diameter.

Nordberg - I was also curious about daytime, because of the
forward scattering and backscattering and 90° to the sun and
actually, in daytime if your turnaround maneuvers are, say, they
don't go around in a plane tangential to the surface of the earth?
They go around in a radial plane, don't they?

Schirra - Well, this is the awful thing about our vehicle. All
the thrusters are not aligned through the body axis, therefore,
you get two and three axes when you ask for one. If you were
trying to track the horizon, using the yaw input, say the horizon

being like an arc here, you go like this. Then you've got to roll,

56
pitch, like this, roll, pitch. In other words, you step your way
around. It is not a smooth maneuver as you would anticipate
in an airplane where you just roll and come around and cut a

Swathe without changing attitude.

Nordberg - In daytime, it should be really a striking thing,

the horizon looking toward the sun and, on either side of the

sun, and also looking straight away from the sun it could be
extremely bright ... and at 90°.

Schirra - You know where we are going to have the most fun?

It's with the lunar module - the LEM or the Bug in earth orbit.

By gosh, that's going to be great, because you practically have

an observatory on your hands. A lot of open panel area that doesn't
have to be protected for re-entry or exit. That will give us our
first real opportunity to look in almost any direction at any time.
You should see the fight we had, to keep a Sth window in the

Apollo command module. They were about to rip it up and save

16 lbs. It was in the right seat where you spend 90% of the time

on a trans-lunar trip. (gasp) Negative. (Laughter) We said no

so we had a seance, that's what we call it. This is when we get-:a
majority of the astronauts together and we agree, If there are any
dissenters it is just too bad. If they are in the minority, well,
we come out with a united opinion. This is how we got our window in
Mercury. It was the result of a seance--it cost $500,000 and I think
you know its worth it. It was for observation not only getting

attitudes.

57
Schirra - These things you can't define by numbers. In spite of
what my philosophy was for this flight you can't resist making
scientific observations, That's taped? I think it's legal.
Gill - That's what I thought--You wouldn't be human if you didn't.
Nordberg - I would like to get away from the horizon now for a
moment. This is going to clouds. There have been reports by
all .five of you on seeing cloud patterns and the like; is there
any good indication when you look down of on depth cloud?
Schirra - Very much so. You can get Paul Backer (try Charles

Coler, MSC, better) to give you the Weather Bureau photos I took.

It's fantastic what you can see. It is the meteorologist's dream
it

to see this depth, cumulus effect, high cumulus, etc. As an
example, I saw the Sierras, I could very definitely see the rising
terrain. I was very much pleased. I can best say this by saying,
if you've flown at 30 thousand or 40 thousand feet, which you must
have, in a jet transport, you see this of course, Now, if the
horizon itself is not visible to you when you are looking more
towards the surface of the earth, if the curvature of the earth is
not visible, you feel that you are at about 50 thousand feet.
Nordberg - And is this because of some sort of stereoscopic view
that you can still see shadows and brightness?

Schirra - I think you take every cue that you've got and you
differentiate colors by grays, blacks, whites, but there is

no doubt in your mind that, you see depth and there is one striking
picture, this Weather Bureau picture, that shows ten different types

of cloud structure. One is a big towering cumulus, almost a cumulus

58
nimbus that stands out like a ruler in relation to the vertical
plane. I think it might be here (in the record).

Nordberg - I have seen some of the films. I don't know if they
were your flight or previous ones. I am just curious whether the
eye sees something better than what shows up on the color film.
Schirra - Yes, they do. You use every cue available.

O'Keefe - He doesn't have the stereoscopic effect ih the ordinary
sense, but you remember that he is in motion when He sees that the
peak of the clous moves at a different rate so he gets a sort of
pseudo-stereoscopic effect like you get when you are driving along
in a car-- by the fact that they are moving relative to the capsule.
Schirra - Take page nine here, and put a sheet of paper on the top
of it to cut off the curvature of the earth and you've seen this
from an airplane. Haven't you?

Nordberg - Yes.

Schirra - That is why I've used it in this example that I am trying
to get across, You can see cloud structures in this yellow band
here that are just terrific.

Nordberg - Well, how about at night? Have you been able to see

any clouds in real darkness at all?

Schirra - Yes, I did and they were lighted by lightning. In fact

I gave Woomera a report on the first orbit saying I would not

possibly see their flare because I was seeing lightning and they

hadn't stepped outside their room, I said that you are about to have

some real brutal thunder storms and the second orbit they agreed with

me, because they were there then. This was during the night side.

BEGINNING OF THIRD TAPE
Schirra - I could not pick up cloud structure because I was
looking down and at this point, you don't have time, and I
don't think your cues are good enough to separate elevations.
Nordberg - You don't recall seeing any clouds when there was
no lightning?
Schirra - No. I don't recall this. I don't think I did really.
I was really frantically trying to see this typhoon, and we called
it a typhoon where Pacific Command Ship was, It was down south of
it, and I could not see it. It was still too dark, and I think
the other reason for it was that the periscope - here we go - was
annoying to me, that picked up the sunrise before I had my
sunrise, because it was looking in that direction, and it ruined
my adaptation. That was when I threw the filter over it, and that
was the end of the periscope forever. I forgot to remove that
filter - not that I even intended to. On descent on the parachute,
and in a way I would like to have had the prerogative of looking
at the periscope and seeing the recovery forces deployed around
there. It took me a long time to realize why I couldn't see the
recovery forces. (Laughter). And it finally came out that I
threw this filter over it just prior to retrofire. And that was
the end of the periscope (laughter) which also showed that I

didn't need it, obviously.

Nordberg - This question of frequency of lightning is a real

important one. Would you say that you saw lightning through each

night time orbit?

61
Schirra - No, that was only during this area. This could best
be described as the eastern half of Australia.
Dubin - Did you notice any lightning while looking down - you
couldn't see the flashes away from the capsule?
Schirra - No, oh no, no, I didn't get any light fed into the capsule.
It was just my eyes that captured this light.
Dubin - In the daytime did you also see lightning the same way? Did
YOUr «tis
Schirra - I don't recall having seen lightning in the daytime. It's
a good question, though, and I don't recall it. I'm sure I would have
noted it if I had seen it.
Nordberg - One question, that I am sure you can't answer because of
the orbit of your vehicle, but it's of tremendous importance to the
geological satellite people, and this is, the distinction of clouds
and ice and snow. I know, you probably never went over snow or ice.
Schirra - I looked up at the Sierras when I was on the second or
third orbit - we can pin this down - and I was talking to John Glenn
about somebody water skiiing on the Salton Sea, and at this time,
it was amazing how much I could see, because this area is practically
crisp, clear air in.the desert, and I lived there for a number of
years, so I know that. I could look all at the Sierras and I could

see snow-capped mountains up there.

Nordberg - But no clouds of course,

Schirra - Not, not - well - on the other side of the Sierras,
westward there was this terrible fog belt, and I do recall saying

sometime I may fly over the Pacific and see the Pacific. I have

62
yet to do this - in aircraft - in all the times I've been out
there - see all of the Pacific. I have never had that opportunity,
and I don't know that anybody ever will.
Tennyson - I think what he was getting at is when in the TIROS
satellite - the cottonpicker goes over and takes a picture perhaps
of stratus deck which to a continual extent runs right up against
the mountains that we know are snow-covered - where one stops
and the other begins, the snow and the stratus, It is difficult
or impossible to tell.
Schirra - No - well, my daytime was, of course, northern latitude,
and this was basically summer. I was in the snow-capped Sierras.
Nordberg ~ This question was really sort of just to make a point,
that if ever an astronaut goes into a polar orbit...
Schirra - Yes.
Nordberg - ...or has the opportunity to fly over the ice caps
to look for this distinction, because this is something we find

we are going to live with.

Schirra - I have flown beyond a cloud deck in aircraft at 40,000

feet and had snow on the surface, and usually trees will come up out
of the snow and then make you realize that you are no longer looking
at a cloud surface.

Tennyson - Well, our definition of a TIROS Satellite - because of
the width of the TV raster - which is just not good enough to pick
up trees with the wide angle and the mediocre lenses we use,

Schirra ~- Well, yes. When you are low enough, you get these terrain

changes which helps you too, I think,

63
Nordberg - There are some thoughts that by polarization and so,
one can distinguish it over a uniform surface; of course, the
eye doesn't have this, but I'm just looking for a clue that the
eye might have which we hadn't thought of in an instrument such
as depth, because it's interesting when you say you can see all
this depth in the clouds themselves.

Schirra - Yes,

Nordberg - ...whether one could see because of depth difference and

shadows, or something, this distinction between clouds and snow. On
the first TIROS (satellite), TIROS I ,..

Schirra - This thing is stalled out (referring to tape recorder),

Is that o.k. Is it finished? - No, no that's going.)

Nordberg - The first TIROS was just sort of an observation when we
still were at this "Ge Whiz" stage on satellites, Boy, we see
something ----

Schirra - Sure, now you want more? (Laughter) - So dol,

Nordberg - People said look at those beautiful orgraphic clouds

over northern India, and there is this huge band, until somebody

saw valleys in these clouds and all there was - was snow-covered
areas and with the valleys being clear.

Schirra - Very good, ...

Tennyson - John O'Keefe has come up with a statement that I, at least,
would like to think about some more and that is the relative motion
involved here. TIROS and Nimbus, etc. are still picture-type items,
I think his (Schirra's) statement there that watching the tops and
bases and of the earth moving at different relative speeds may be,

at least, as important to height determination as anything we can

do with spare part items or items like that.

Nordberg - It's again the depth.

Schirra - Well, we are working a movie camera where TIROS is taking
stills, is what you are saying.

Tennyson - Exactly, and you imply a height which the eye in itself
in a still picture mode can't see, but as it goes you say, ah, ha
- this moves at a different speed, and therefore, it had to be
higher.

Schirra - I would accept that, except for the photograph I have
here which shows this depth. Or is it reminding me of it? I do
not know. Do you see the depth I talk about in that photograph on
page 9?

Tennyson - To some degree (perhaps), but, no, not as directly.

I found that picture interesting, but as indecisive as a good many

of these prints are.

Schirra - Well now, do you have all of these Weather Bureau

photographs?

Nordberg - I have not seen all of them - well, we may not have them
I find that sometimes it is very peculiar that as a NASA outfit -
NASA Center - we often have less immediate access to some of these
films than the Weather Bureau has - (Laughter).

Schirra - Well, let's -- I find this disturbs me very much in

that when I yielded to taking a camera, I actually did want to take
one, but I wanted to make people fight to give me the best piece of
equipment they could get rather than just take a camera. I wanted

it very clear that those people who could use this data would get

65
the best print available, and I definitely have this group on
that list. For one, I am disappointed that this occasion where
I pulled this Weather Bureau filter out of the back to take
these two pictures of the moon, I have heard and I have yet
to have seen the graphic results of those two black and whites
on the moon, which are quite interesting to a lot of people.
I have heard this. Now where they've gone, I don't know,
Although I know they can be obtained again, I thought this was
a shame.
Tennyson - I don't think that I have ever seen these prints.
And, we are in the office that supposedly collects the require-
ments for meteorological satellites and I have not seen the

direct prints of this. The only thing I have seen come out --

Schirra - Well, I have heard that if you take - and I haven't

had the prerogative either - if you take the motion and project

it on a very good screen, it is really something to see -- at least
of these two lunar pictures. And that's why I took the Hasselblad.
To take this big piece of emulsion - the 70 mm film rather than

a 16 or 35 mm. - and this I do know about photography that the
larger the strip of film, the more you will get out of it. That's
why we went first class with a Hasselblad (camera) and why I am

not at all in favor of taking a 16 mm, camera along which is what
we are uSing.

Nordberg - We had, in the early days, right after MA-6, we had
written to Kleinknecht and had gotten periscope film, which, you

know what the quality is, and we got always the answer that they

66
don't have the 70 mm, yet, but as soon as they become available,
they'd send them to us, but actually we haven't really received
anything from them since and the only time that I have seen
some of these photographs that you are talking about ...
Schirra - Well, Kleinknecht doesn't have control of this, MSC
doesn't have control of these pictures I took, obviously, or
actually I would have been able to see then,
Gill - Who does?
Tennyson - The person involved with this (at least in the past)
is Stanley Soules.
Schirra - Yes, when you think of the small number of pictures I
did take, and the expense that was involved in taking these
pictures, it is just amazing that first class reproductions
haven't been disseminated widely.
Shoemaker - I think, Jocelyn, this is something that you and I

and John O'Keefe should take up with our joint committee.

Gril «wI' ll look anto it.

Schirra - They should be all over the place ... is really

what I am really getting at.

Shoemaker - This is something we can do something about.

Schirra - Sure. I know Kleinknecht can't help you with this
because he has no control over this.

Shoemaker - I think we can straighten this out,

Cameron - Did you ever think you could see highways?

Schirra - I saw roads in areas such as Mexico where they disturb

the terrain by being in a straight line. I never did have the

opportunity to see a highway, for example, and trace it,

because I wasn't over those populated areas such as the Southern
United States long enough or had the clear weather to just

Sit there and observe them. In contrast, I think what you

would do if you saw something and wanted to look at it, I

think what you would do is that you would pitch down more - to
look almost straight down and see it which Scott had the capability
of doing and he could really take a careful look at it.

O'Keefe - One curious fact that I haven't seen anybody take
advantage of is this. It is quite common in triangulation -

that two stations which are a couple of hundred miles apart, or

a hundred miles apart, and that therefore as far apart as you are
from the ground and along a light path which is much inferior -
it's nearly parallel to the earth. In order for one of those
stations to see the other one - to measure on it - they provide
one of them with a 6-inch heliotrope, that's enough. That means
that somebody on the ground with a six-inch heliotrope who knew
how to point could point a light that you could see even in the
daytime if they had a dark background; and conversely, if you had
a heliotrope, you could also be seen from the ground. I have never
seen this possibility discussed. Of course it also goes with the
fact that instead of these tremendous flares, if they knew how to
point, they could make a much stronger light where you are with a
search light.

Scharra - Surés «es

O'Keefe - The army 5-foot searchlight gives 800 million candles

68
on the axis which is easily the equivalent of 800 million candle

power...Ssingle flare on the ground ...

Schirra = uh = huh --

O'Keefe - Well, I think 2 or 3 million is the biggest thing they
ever tried to use. So the directed beam has quite a big advantage
over the undirected beam, if people's orbital work is good enough.
Schirra - Agreed. Our problem of course, is unless we have the window,
meaning, of course, attitude, fairly vertical in relation to the
surface of the earth, you can't take advantage of this. This is just
the confined attitude that we've been flying in. ...

Shoemaker - I think this bears on another question that was
submitted. I might read it and find out what else we can add to it.
The photographs of terrain were not successful. Some of the trouble
was obviously due to cloud cover, and some of the film was over-
exposed. Can you comment further on this, and do you have any
suggestions for successful terrain photography on future flights?
Schirra - Yes, I do. I used a BIWI automatic light meter which is
still ideal for the job, and again we were not briefed carefully
enough on the BIWI automatic, and if I had this to do again, I

would get the manufacturer from BIWI to come down. In fact, many
things I've talked about for equipment, I would not ever -- I said
this years before this flight, but while on the program...If I needed
some information on the capsule, I would not feel adverse to calling
Mr. McDonell (McDonnell Aircraft) down, as an example. If I had a

BIWI exposure meter, I would like to have Mr. BIWI or whoever is

69

the man to brief me on it, and I since have read up a little bit further
on this exposure meter and there is a little soft, white cap
that goes over the eye of the exposure meter which takes diffused
light. It doesn't change the light meter reading, but it basically
then takes an average of all the light it sees. Now when I was

using it, I didn’t have this cap on there and I then got the
brightest light of some area and that's why we overexposed the film
Nordberg - Yes, yes ... it's very simple...
Schirra - It’s as basic as that, and that's why I over-exposed
these light values that I came back with and which were recorded
are really of no great value because of this, I think. It's a
small focus - the exposure meter is just about that size cubed
(demonstrating) it's a beautiful little piece of equipment and
quite accurate. We had a calibrator, but it should have been
(capped) ... Gordon Cooper knows this and will have a cap on his,
I might add.
Nordberg - Have all pictures been overexposed?
Schirra - No, I looked out on occasion where I would be looking at
an almost uniformly lighted area such as the surface of the earth.
When I had the horizon in the picture, we usually overexposed
because I had two different light levels.
Dunkelman - Well, the pity of it all is, since you do need an
exposure meter to get a good picture, and exposure meters give you
a number, it's too bad the numbers isn't available.

Schirra - I did record these,

Dunkelman - Sooner or later these numbers are going to give you a
peed LEE g g g )

lot of information about these flights.

Schirra - That was my intent in taking the exposure meter and the
Hasselblad because you took light values rather than F-stops

and shutter speeds and this means nothing... those numbers. The
light values connote exactly what you want to know,

Dunkelman - And a few of those and you've got it all made and
you know all the circumstances.

Schirra - Cooper will have this very same type of light meter,

Nordberg - You know why I asked this question, Larry, because

we are measuring visible radiation in one channel of the TIROS

satellite which is essentially the same thing as an incident
light meter measuring in one direction and when we compute the
reflected energy from the earth, it always comes out too little
which is the same thing as overexposed pictures.

Schirra - Sure, Sure. It just depends on how much it sees. If it
sees the horizon, it's going to have some black in there relative
to the bright surface of the earth, so it averages it out.
Shoemaker - I'd like to add some questions of my own to this,

You were over Africa during daylight on part of your flight,

were you not?

Schirra - Oh yes.

Shoemaker - And how about Australia? Were you over there during
daytime at all?

Schirra - No, never having daylight over Australia.

Shoemaker - I am curious as to how much detail you could see on the

71

ground as to structure. Could you infer anything about it?

Schirra - Amazingly enough I felt I saw every bit of what I see

here. The terrain changes, the rivers - one of the best shots -
this is of course, South America, that's the one I'd like to use
in fact - when I came across South America, here we are, on the
sixth orbit, in this area it was all clouded, and I finally broke
into the clear - in this sense - just before I got to Rio de Janeiro,
and I could see, I think it was the Corono River, I am not sure.
This is about where it started clear again. I could trace that
river out very easily. Just follow it all the way through there.
Roman - To the ocean?

Schirra - No, I could not do that. I thought I could, but at this
point, it's sort of a local sunrise, so you don't have good vertical
lighting on it at this point. Now in Africa, I had vertical
lighting almost. This was almost its local noon when I crossed it.
I would like to have seen this large lake right here almost in the
center of the mass of Africa, and I don't recall seeing it.

O'Keefe - Chad, Chad.

Schirra - Yes, I think this is probably when I was conversing with
Conno and we had quite a bit of discourse about the suit circuit.
O'Keefe - Chad is a very tricky lake anyway. Lots of the reeds in
it, and it is very shallow; I think sometimes it just isn’t there,
SO ooo

Schirra - I think you just simply get a light reflection off it
possibly. It looked so pronounced here that I wanted to see this

as a check point and had it in mind, and I've forgotten ...

O'Keefe - I think this is swamp and it's very shallow,

Gill - You never would see it then,

Shoemaker - In photographs I've seen from previous flights, both
Glenn's and Carpenter's flights, I think we got some pictures on
Africa, and I was quite interested in these because they begin to
show up the structure, the bedding, etc.

Schirra - Yes, I was looking for this particularly over Africa and
South America because this was supposed to be real prime in transi-
tion on the northwest part of South America which was really a
beauty when you visualize how you hit that with the 6th orbit, and
I didn't have that prerogative either. Yes, when you come down to
it, this was all primed for geologic study, I thought ... Even
Cuba was hard to see. (Laughter)

Cameron ~ Did you see anything on the order of craters?

Schirra - No, this is not the map I flew with by the way - sort of
blocked out for specific attention. I frankly was very disappointed
about the cloud cover. I think you've detected that anyway.

That doesn't go too far North and South you are in this tropical
zone which is the cloudiest part of the earth.

Schirra - Yes.

O'Keefe - It is most systematically cloudy. If you can go just a
little further north and south, the chance of getting this weather
will be better, although this would probably always be true, just
as you've said, that most of the earth at any one time will be
cloudy. This belt goes from about 35 degrees North to 35 degrees

south, You didn't quite get an inclination of about 33 degrees.

73
Schirra - As an example, I was hoping that I could look up at
Japan after retrofire, and I couldn't see it at all. It was
clouded in too.
Tennyson - Japan, this time of year, looks like it would be cloudy.
Nordberg - Particularly at this time of year - this was October, so
that was already in the Northern Hemisphere and should be out of
the tropical convergence zone,
Tennyson - But still Japan by nature is .... (cloudy)
Schirra - There was quite a bit of weather in the Pacific at that ti
O'Keefe - Still, if he goes 28 degrees N to 28 degrees S, he was in
the tropical convergence zone most of the time. So things aren't
quite as bad as they would appear from this flight.
Shoemaker - The point is that this also is in the area which is
mostly extensive deserts; these are the precise areas where you
would see the geology best.
Schirra - Yes.
O'Keefe - This is 30 North and 30 South -- the deserts are 35
degrees.
Shoemaker - Well, actually the extensive deserts nearly all lie
Schirra - Something I'm curious about is, I would like to have some-
body - well there are two ways of doing this - I bet I probably had
water underneath me about 90% of the time.
Cameron - About how much cloud coverage would you estimate? Would

you estimate the amount of the earth that was covered by clouds?

Schirra - I guess I could check this more carefully. I would

74
estimate it to be about 80 to 90%. When I went over - the United
States was clear east of the Sierra's, but it "sacked in"
(clouded over) again by the time I got to the Gulf of Mexico,
so I just had a small band when you look at this part of the
United States. This is not very much percentage-wise, South
America, I didn't get to until the 5th and 6th orbits, so I was
over water all the other time. The northsic portion of the continen:
was cloudy and finally I got into the clear on the 5th and 6 orbits
by the time I'd just left South America. Australia, of course, was
night, so it turned out that there wasn't much I could say about it.
Other than the fact that it was clouded over too. I saw lightning
as I got to the eastern half of Australia.
Gill - You never saw any large view of water then? In other words,
you didn't see any part of an ocean?
Schirra - No, I expected to have some fun looking at shorelines.
This is what I really wanted to look at, to see if I could see
color contrast and even the Pacific Islands. I had hoped to see the
Hawaiian Islands which would have been a real easy one to pick up,
and I think I had one little glimpse; about as much as if you'd fly
9/10 cumulus structure and you pop one through there. That's about
as much as I had and I couldn't even identify which Island I was
looking at.

O'Keefe - Probably Haleala or else ...

Schirra - Might have even been Hawaii itself, I am not sure, which

is probably the highest of the bunch, and it might have popped up

through it.

O'Keefe - There's a 10,000 foot peak (Haleaki) or Maui.

Dubin - How were you overall set for time? You were up to the

sixth orbit and you had some trouble with your suit, so we found
out. Did you have time to basically do more scientific work

than you had the privilege of doing?

Schirra - I think as we - and this is the trouble with Mercury
because this is just about phasing out - as you get your confidence
in the systems to where you don't need to monitor them as often, yo
could take time for observation, But you continually, at this stage
of the game, cannot rely on the systems running themselves and so

you keep carefully monitoring these things. This draws your

attention away from, say a five minute observation. The only time

that you could make a lengthy observation would be when you are
under this automatic control when the capsule is maintaining its
attitude for you rather than you trying to maintain it. This is
very hard to do; to maintain a capsule attitude. In that it's a
three-axis motion everytime you make one motion because each one

is influenced by another axis thrusting. So as a result, it gets
quite expensive fuel-wise to point your field of view at an object.
You have to sit there and just steam around like mad to do this.
Gill - Would you say that you ever had as much as five minutes at

a time to look out of the window?

Schirra - Oh, yes. I think I took a fairly long amount of time

for example; observing this particular sunset that's representative
of about three or four minutes. Even then, you keep checking things

to see if what you see is really what you are seeing. For example,

76

was that really Mercury? Well, I knew it was Mercury just by having

had the opportunity to have Mercury projected on approximate launch

day, so I knew it had to trail the sun, and everytime we ran the

planetarium, we had Mercury projected tracking the sun, on the

sane path, of course.

Gill - So it is a great help to know what things are there and where
they are before you take off.

Schirra - Yes. You've got to have most of this stuff in your mind
rather than have to refer to something to remind you of it again.
This is why you can get confused as I was, when I was drifting, as
what star or constellations I was looking at.

Shoemaker - We have one more question. I think this is rather a
trivial one. I don't think we need to dwell on it. Did the moon
interfere with your view at anytime, or did you make use of it in
anyway?

Schirra - I used it liberally, of course, for attitude reference.
best example, on the third orbit, I was drifting and then restored
attitude during the night rather than during the daytime. We were
trying to determine whether we could get the attitude back both
daylight and night. Out of the unknown attitude, I first picked up
the horizon which was on the night side, very easily, which then
gave me roll and pitch and then I had no idea which way to go for
yaw, We had no compass ... whether it would work or not is something
else. I started looking around at this starfield which was not on my

flight path, by far, and finally, Cassiopeia became quite obvious

77
to me. I said, "Well I, that means I must go left," and as
I came left, I started picking up other stars which became known
to me through the starfield that I had rehearsed. Then the moon
and Venus showed up and that was here.
O'Keefe - It must be very difficult to pick up constellations when
you have a starfield to look at that is as small as through your
window,
Gill «(It isp’t cous
Schirra - No, Orion, for example, was not included in the window,
you might see the belt and that's about it, or maybe one or two others

in the constellation. That's about all. When you see something

like Aldebaran, and the "v'" (Hyades in the Constellation Taurus)

if you just saw that alone, you might very well get trapped,
thinking it was the Pleiades, particularly, if you don't have an
attitude. You know how well, I know you got trapped (turning

to Dr. Gill) when we went into the Planetarium for the first time
things were inverted for you?

Gill - Oh yes - yes, indeed.

Schirra - When you have an unknown attitude, the star picture is bent
out of shape. You can get into trouble fast.

Nordberg - I had a heck of a time the first time I was in Australia;
it was difficult to recognize anything.

Schirra - Isn't it! Yes and when we aren't changing attitude and
even when we know the starfield, it's not changing once youv‘e

seen it on the first orbit. SO I was sitting there with the star

chart, bending it around. (Laughter)

Gill - It's very hard to get oriented.

Dubin - Did you or Glenn or Carpenter see any meteors?

Schirra - No, and we were naturally anxious to see them, I
understand some little Japanese boy picked up one recently
(Comet Ikeya). Isn't that right? That was a comet and we were
looking for meteors and comets and we never saw any.

Dubin - And so you never saw any?

Schirra - So I suspect that you have to see the meteors from the
surface of the earth.

Dunkelman - No, again the field of view is too limited.

Schirra - Again the odds are pretty grim. You take this little
window and you project it through 180 degrees, and it's pretty
hard to see anything. That's why I say this lab (lunar module)
is going to be fabulous. It really will ... That's practically a

bird cage.
4

Nordberg - How about the brightness of the sky looking as straight

out as possible in the daytime?

Schirra - I have asked Gordon to go ahead and do this again and
concentrate on it. I did not, but in my recollection, I did not
see anything in the heavens on the daylight side. I think what
did this was the reflections off the window with this smoked over
effect which made it even less visible. This film - back to the
windshield thing - where the smoke is condensed on there - under
the right lighting conditions you can barely see through one of

these things. That's basically what happened there.

Nordberg - How about color? Was it very dark blue?

Schirra - Oh it went from blue to black. Not an appealing

blue by any means.

Dunkelman - Well, really to be fair to an astronaut, one ought to
take a replica of the window and go in the dark room and illuminate
it side-wise with a xenon arc or a solar simulator or something
that will come near it and then look out and see what you can‘see,
and I am afraid that it is going to be pretty miserable.

Nordberg - It worked well in an experiment.

Dunkelman - I think it should be done ,..it's the sort of thing you
should do.

Schirra - We continually do this in airplanes at 50,000 feet in
daylight and the sky is quite dark. It's very dark to you, It
turns out that all this incident light that's reflecting around
this panel - just because its plastic, it feeds light through it
much like a fibre optics system and becomes a glowing panel that

you are looking through here.

O'Keefe - The full moon which is as "black" as ... yet we all

know that the full moon just about blasts the sky. That means
that if when you are looking out of that window, you see any
object which is illuminated by the sun, and which is as big as
One-inch ten feet away, you've got the equivalent of illumination
by the full moon in terms of you know, disturbing your adaptation.
Schirra - Oh yes.

O'Keefe - Even if it's painted black and of course, you are not

likely to be that lucky ... you are likely to have some nice, bright

gleaming thing.

Schirra - The only opportunities I had for looking vertically were
during boost and re-entry and a lucky chance while drifting.

O'Keefe - If you are going to observe during the daytime, the whole
window has to be turned so that the window doesn't look at the sun
and so that it doesn't look at anything that looks at the sun and

so that it doesn't look at anything that looks at something that loo!
at the sun.

Schirra - Right.

Tennyson - Otherwise, this would imply that to know with reasonable

exactitude what is being photographed through the window in terms of

spectra or anything like that, you'd not only have to know the trans-
missivity of the window spectrum range by running it value by value
across it, but you would have to know what was on the window and
what the angle, the incident, sunlight and everything else were
because some of this is going to wind up inside on the camera.
Schirra - Right.

Gill - So, you didn't go through the periscope hole, you say?
Schirra - Basically, you were ...

Tennyson - I was talking about these weather bureau pictures ...
Gill - Oh you were ... those weather bureau pictures, oh well ...
Schirra - Where we are trapped really is that we can't duplicate
what amounts to being in the bottom of a well.

Tennyson - Well, I understand.

Schirra - That's the whole thing.

Tennyson - This isn't a criticism ... it's just a comment really.

81
Schirra - That's our liability with the window being on an external
surface. You are that close to the top of the well, so you get
incident light all over the place.
O'Keefe - We don't want to create artificial problems here. That
smoke scum on the window would not really disturb a stella spectrum be-
cause the absorption would be broad hand and would not be confused
with the stellar lines.
Dunkelman - That's right.
Tennyson - I was thinking about the IQSY photographs.
Schirra - Yes, yes.
Tennyson - We are going with the problem of, oh, the ultra violet
and what is going to fog our nimbus pictures so to speak through these
photographs, well, the same still unknown film on this thin (capsule
window) being reflected in sunlight at an unknown altitude through
this window...when you get through, what I'm saying is it would
be very hard for us to tell from these weather bureau pictures, etc.
(inaudible)
Nordberg - Well, of course, but it's really more an intensity
problem-just brightness rather than spectral-I think spectral is not
too much of a problem, but the fact that it just dims things under
certain angles makes me ... things that much clearer. But this
experiment you suggested there is a real excellent one (referring

to Dunkelman's.

Schirra - Oh yeah.

Dunkelman - Well, I mean it modifies it even more, makes it better

because you can do the same thing outside at night in clear air -

82

just look at the night sky and then again, having a low level

source coming up and even if the window is absolutely clean what
happens with these eight reflections.

Schirra - Sure.

Dunkelman - You see, the problem of not letting anything look a

the sun or letting that look at the sun look at this

even with automatic satellites.

Schirra - Well, I'd be very glad to see it (except capsule window).
Nordberg - Okay, can we get a window?

Schirra - I think we have got enough used capsules around,

mine is on its way to South America though (laughter). In fact,

to be there in three days.

Shoemaker - I wonder if we have one last question. If not, we should
adjourn. Any further questions you'd like to pose to Commander
Schirra?

Dubin - Yes, Commander Schirra, one question, what suggestions do

you have for improving the operation over and above what you have
already mentioned so far? That's not a very nice question.

Schirra - No, you mean, as far as pursuing investigation scientificall
is concerned?

Dubin Yes.

Schirra - I feel at this point, for example, in Cooper's flight, what

we are really trying to do is to get at least man in space for one
day. We don't dare compromise that because we need to know how

man can hold up for this and we design the capability in the systems.

83

I admit this is my old pitch, but still he will have a lot of time
to do things. So he has a number of experiments on his flight and
he definitely will perform these. Now, in my case once I solved the
Suit circuit problem, I really didn't have many problems, Frankly,
none to speak of, But, again to conserve the energy to stay in
orbit meaning the control fuel and the electrical power, I had to
throw away control attitudes. Once you try to get a control attitud
back again, you've got to bring all electrical power back on the line.
You have to use a sizeable chunk of the control fuel. This cost us
dearly with this weight-limited system. The way to get around

this, of course, is to have a larger field of view, since you don't
need to move the vehicle as much, and this is, I can already see,
the first salvation on this and this is the lunar module in earth
Orbit. The Gemini has even less field of view than Mercury.

Apollo has possibly as much per man. To get a large field of view
in space the first time, we can do it with the vehicle that

isn't going to re-enter (lunar module) - basically that's what it

amounts to,

Nordberg - I think it’s really fantastic that you fellows have

seen what you have seen with such limitations. I think it really
probably is one of the reasons that people like ourselves are used
to just looking at one dial and we stand in the laboratory and
read one meter. These fellows are really looking for everything.
Schirra - Well, I think that this is part of what fell out of the

criteria that we were selected from, and that is the inquisitive mind.

84

We don't like to let things go on without knowing at what they are;
and you explore them pretty thoroughly, maybe with limited know-
ledge, but at least you try to get it down. I have been fighting
like mad to get this continuous tape recording. This was invaluable
to get answers just like Larry and I and Mrs. Cameron went back and
traced out some of this like the smog layer. I would have
remembered this, but I probably couldn't have told you when I saw
it without referring back to this continuous tape. This is some-
thing we are not getting.

O'Keefe - It’s quite a fascinating thing to listen to these tape
recordings; undergoing this is a tremendous experience. You can
hear what the person is - I think that is a debt to humanity -

that it ought to be done.

Schirra - I've been fighting for it all along. At least, we ought

to be able to store for a period of time and then dump it in fast

time and then retape.

Dunkelman - And with your flight we actually see the beginning of
an interesting turn of events. In the past, people on the ground

I think we had...

Schirra - Sure.

Dunkelman - Would tell the astronaut what to look for - now in your
case, when you saw this brownish smog thing - here's a case where
you could have said to the ground, "now, you look" now, it seemed
bright enough, so if there were any people on the ground

Schirra - Unfortunately, I'd left my last point of contact which was

tthe Indian Ocean Ship.

Dunkelman - Yes, but the point is this is the return, what I'm
trying to get at -- the moment you saw that which no one saw at the
time on the ground is the beginning of a new period which we have
to take advantage of on the next flight.

Schirra - Oh, of course.

Dunkelman - Here's the case where an astronaut can tell the ground,
"Now look" - "here now", you see.

Schirra - Interestingly enough - it was about that same time when
the Indian Ocean ship saw me,

Dunkelman - Oh, oh, now of course they are in the clouds and...
Gill - Much more interested (in seeing you).

Schirra - I didn't know it at that point though.

Nordberg - That lightning case, though ...

Schirra - Yes, I gave them a weather report and they didn't believe
me either. (laughter) They said, "Oh, it's clear here." Well, of
course, I had to look back on a very long slant line to see the
flare, and this was, then covered by clouds, well, then, if this
were Woomera, then the cloud structure would go up like this

we'll say, well, I was over here, so I really couldn't see Woomera
at that time. That’s how I satisfied myself I never would even
though they had a beautiful clear sky over their station for that
first period.

Tennyson - This is not only great for you, it's great for the
scientific world.

Schirra =|'lt 15,

86

Tennyson - It's good to have somebody else who isn't constrained to

party lines.

Gill - It's a privilege to meet with you, really.

Tennyson - Something that shocks me is that the discussion from
Scott Carpenter and your discussion is the picking out of clues
from about, heaven knows, how many scientific disciplines from

your general experience etc., and integrate them all together and
be able to present them; frankly, I just find this very interesting
that anybody can do that. The wide range of experience.

Schirra - I think it's the opportunities of so many exposures we've
had and we have taken advantage of them, and as an example, we can
have an audience with you people anytime we call, and if we have
questions and this is true throughout the whole program. I can
talk to Von Braun if I'd like to right now. I can talk to a technician
that's working on a nut and bolt on Von Braun's booster right now.
We have this prerogative which is very great for us. We are not
stuck with the disciplines of crossing party lines or anything like
this or going up to the ladder and back down again. We go - we
just take a straight path to where we want to get information. It
is a tremendous opportunity for us, and we try not to abuse it, but
we use it liberally really. I might add that anytime you have a
question, our phones are always available for this kind of thing.
Don't ever think we are incommunicado.

Shoemaker - Good - that's very good, Commander. I'd like to thank
you very much,

Schirra - Sure, I was glad to come by.

THE END

President

he can observe and make

judgments that no instrument

or animal can accomplish.
As an example, Douglas said

that Glenn, on his own initia-

had turned his

craft around 180
his second orbit see

whether the mysterious ‘“fire-
flies’ he had noticed on his
first orbit might be paint or
other particles from his craft.

The astronaut found that the
unknown objects streamed
past his window in the same
direction as on his first sight-
ing, proving they were inde-
pendent of the spacecraft.

Scientists here believe the
still unknown luminous _par-
ticles, when further explored,
may lead to important new
knowledge of space phenom-
ena. No unmanned satellite or
observation from earth had de-
tected anything like this be-
fore.

Glenn reported they
small, but as he lacked any
checkpoint, it could be that
the particles were more distant
and larger than he thought

Similarly, scientists are much
interested in the luminous
haze belt Glenn saw about 7
to 8 degrees above the horizon
over the dark part of the
earth Tuesday. Soviet cosmo-
naut Gherman Titov reported
seeing about the same thing,
but there has been no expla-
nation of it as yet.

These observations, say Mer-
cury officials, are an answer
to those who have opposed
sending man into space when
instruments can make obser-
vations better and cheaper

Astronaut Glenn, himself,
believes that the most signifi-
eant technical result of his
flight was to prove the im-
portance of man as a pilot in
space travel.

“We have piped man aboard
as the pilot of spacecraft,” he
said in nautical lingo. “Now
we can get rid of some of that
automatic equipment.”

Much of the weight of the
Friendship 7 capsule ‘includes
duplicating systems put in be-
cause it was not known
whether man could function in
a weightless state.

The fact that man can be
an active pilot and not largely
a passenger on a spacecraft
will have its impact on future
Mercury flights and _ later

tive, space-
degrees on

to

were

plans
Apollo s¥

Glenn,
tried to
terious ‘fi
held 35-mi
filled with 4
Force doctc
tives showe
ible but they
larged for clos
perts.

In reloading
Douglas said, G
grip on a film oa
floated in front
weightless flight.
for it, the tip of I
it and it “sailed
never could get
again.”

The astronaut ré
he had no trouble
tablets and a
squeezed from a
Douglas said

MILK—From

No Neec
For Antt

wards year’s end an
again next spring

If the estimated level
actually

will still

to be those

enced, they

“nermissible

below the

els set by Government

cials,
No Marked Strontium Ris

The PHS yesterday also
ported that radioactive str
tium measurements from Se
tember through Novemb
1961, do not “differ materia
from those found prior to
sumption of Russian nucle
weapons tests.” Milk sampl
from Washington, for exan
ple, averaged seven micro
microcuries per liter during
September and 10 micromicro-
curies during October and No-
vember.

These figures do not vary
greatly from those reported
for other American cities,
with the exception of Port
land, Ore., which showed 3j
micromicrocuries per litg
during November. A P
spokesman said the Port

CORRECTION

a price was omitted in Food Fair's a
in this newspaper yesterday The ‘Post regre
and publishes the complete listing below:

FRYERS oF wuoue
BROILERS

Inadvertently

Duta paw Se

ps pe toa Le oe
4; aber 4 Jt

rear ene Les Tous Orbiiamt O Graven
ds Lladagpat Lalmanto -

Kiln om re dyna et Hi Me

nccaapen’ > nie

Photo tisk 3 ee

MASA Ddenwese Zs f pulichil
Cormlostey ms.
irwren oe acta pews

Ay - Payraw usd -

M eno 6 ann

Somse contedeacdéver of NWtamrned Secente $e J jonce Fx plo 1 key
Hh, Lieber owes ue Foes A Chun Sy

Ge Moke

ae

Sep cilees
a ahabes — berg ne. Bee a= 2

——_ Bene Pacha

Pudge ees —

be a fas cunt i faey

grrr Pen gree -
Creep VOME TH «

iS, 7
vie Waa i ¥ werd = Caan sp 99n eae =
« Z, wef — MrUnvy7r et -
J th Op EPI p2F7 py? f i
aia dia apes @
preengesny yn 797 —

~ a? M4y wD -
WA >) 2M >- 7 W222 , AOI .

(pet NTS Lede fo Preaypve exe 727th)
, wpoeey per rr nvote fp ry ven aww

~ memeoo ef? nods @

Mer AP FIPTVIA = é wows = 4, OE OT G 207 "a ©
“an eas rug —_—

seorpg'¥p “sp 7? hs Leet §) J)

sump wepepewrg O

@e?r7e sa w e es ekeie Cars i
a i

sy°5te Ce Tey, VW frames

« z wv VIMEHA :
any foashya yeh mae TC UF

ee ck, ae SC

Kp rarecenpe COMP SD —

Sop Ge.
Jo - [Save neared dante. adaple Tote LE 0. weendow BO

% esenclouw cut doure

a of pel cliorw

~ dag duse aden:

cevatd loeb aFct-

Eds bhud ~
& baphk = Lh me Cs

= Sretet cue

6 au an atm, lou — < ~. Zo qe

Llaw - wanes e

ie

cut Ralf 2 -

Antica = (Oger

— Yq? Late -

Mo Cow
fieoould

7 dart Ey ot Buuth a

; a Ste pete
Px 16 hp - Re batid: 24 f der

Woot

° yk

we

pa ere ya

Ho Re pe Bo °K, Pel, pare Chad. 307%, Ran prtrete

G oz: *7 fJise Qrek »

eat Tin eee
rd

‘Sug ~ be

~ Wale

Se
aes

Ae

‘t AtueG un neas' Lh
de hol CLhigae a si i fete

ep en foot

<p agen dow - pod

eel dere (eww?

co enn

- witGe = |. ated

pa LCG aphe sort

wee ned arr inna

““Meteors”’ (A Symposium on Meteor Physics): Special Supplement (Vol. 2) to J. Atmosph. Terr. Phys. (1955)

Meteor Ionization in the E-region -

Maurice Dupin
Air Force Cambridge Research Center, U.S.A.

ABSTRACT ‘

The theories of meteoric interaction with the atmosphere have been reviewed to determine the total
contribution by meteors to the ionization content of the H-region. From Herlofson’s theoretical
treatment of this interaction, and Watson’s distribution of the size and numbers of meteoric particles
entering the atmosphere per day, the number of electrons produced at various altitudes in the H-region
was computed. These computations indicated that most of the ionization at higher altitudes resulted
from meteors of large visual magnitude. Since, as Whipple has shown, the ablation process would probably
not occur in the case of micrometeorites because of heat loss by radiation, the collision processes for
ionization were reviewed; it seems that the ionization process is mainly a function of the relative energy
of the collision, and therefore ablation prior to ionization would not be required for small particles.
Using the value (of GREENHOW and Hawkins, 1952) for the efficiency of the ionization process and the
recently revised value for the amount of meteoric material entering the atmosphere per day, the rate of
production lof electrons was found to be 20 electrons/ce sec. From this value and the recombination
coefficients in the H-region, the equilibrium electron density in the H-region was found to be between
2.x 104 and 7 x 104 electrons/ce. It is therefore proposed that the night-time value for the electron
density in the #-region results from meteoric bombardment, and that sporadic H is caused by the same
process on the assumption that the distribution of meteoric particles in space is non-isotropic and
contains centres of high density. Perhaps, also, the interaction of charged micrometeorites with the
earth’s magnetic field, may be considered as a mechanism for the production of magnetic storms.

1. INTRODUCTION

Meteors, as commonly known, are extra-terrestrial particles of only a few milli-
grams, which enter the earth’s atmosphere at relatively high velocities. In their
interaction with the air, they are vaporized by the heat generated and are respon-
sible for the emission of light and production of ions along the meteor trail. The
major portion of the kinetic energy of the meteoric particles is absorbed in the
altitude region between 80 and 120 km. It is attempted below to consider whether
the integrated effects of this meteoric interaction might contribute to the structure
of the H-region.
: 2. THEORY

HERLOFSON (1948) has constructed a model for the interaction of meteoric particles
with the atmosphere. It is assumed that in the region of meteoric flash, the mean
free path of the molecule is much greater than the radius of the meteor. Under
such conditions, the front surface of the meteor is bombarded by single air mole-
cules and the major portion of them is trapped in the metal surface. The kinetic
energy relative to the meteor which is given up to the meteor suffices to bring the
temperature to that of evaporation. The meteor atoms evaporate off the meteor
(ablation) with velocities appropriate to the temperature and the relative velocity
of the meteor with respect to the air.

From consideration of the physical interaction. of the meteor with the air mass,
using the differential form of the conservation of energy and momentum, HERLOFSON
determined the equation for the rate of evaporation at any point along the trail.

where mmax = 7 X 107% 7,2 = the maximum rate of evaporation.
p =the pressure at any point along the trail.
Pmax = 4 X 10-*r,, = pressure along the trail where mmax occurs.
?. = the initial radius of the meteoric particle.

lil

Mavrice DusrIn

Since the velocity distribution of meteors is over the range from 10 to 70
km/sec, for the purpose of computation an average velocity of 40 km/sec was used.
Pmax and Nmax were determined accordingly.

From equation (1) and Warson’s (1941) estimate for the number and size
distribution of meteors entering the earth’s atmosphere Table I was computed.
The computation has been made for three altitudes, 85 km, 100 km, and 115 km,
using the following rocket pressures:

Altitude (km) | Pressure (mm of Hg) | Getitudian aos
| vules (¢

85 | 4
100 | 4
115 4

x 16s" 1014
x 1o=4 1018
Ge | ig Lo

Thus equation (1) becomes

Gi hi snk Oe : ( ] p )
mK prn2{1 — —
44x 107 34x 10-r,,

307,

1 2
: ox 107.

(Be Saas
ts 5 TP ‘aie

The number of electrons per cm of path becomes, from Hrrtorson (1948),
MX 10-9 me SC ALOsF
n, cm-! = — a ee hh,
e ; 7

From Table I it is evident that the number of electrons for a shell of 1 cm
thickness over the surface of the earth, resulting from meteors, is 10?° electrons
per day at 85km produced mainly from meteors of visual magnitudes 1 to 4,
about 102° electrons per day at 100 km with the major contribution for visual
magnitudes 6 to 15, and again about 10?° electrons per day at 115.km from mag.
7 to 20. The number of electrons produced per cm of path per cm? per sec at these
three altitudes is thus 10?9/(4.4 x 1078) = 2 x 1074 electrons per cm? per
second.

Now according to HERLOFSON, the kinetic energy of a typical meteor is divided
in the ratio 104: 10? : 1 for the production of heat, light, and ionization, respec-
tively. These values were used in the computation of Table I. However, from

114 Maurice DuBIN

consideration of long-duration meteor echoes it has been suggested that the electron
density in the trail is greater than the critical density for the radio wavelengths
employed in probing meteors, and has led to a revision of the Herlofson ratios for
the production of heat, light, and ionization. GremENHOW and Hawkins (1952)
thereby found that a meteor of visual magnitude +6 would produce approxi-
mately 10!? electrons per centimetre of path. This is one hundred times greater
than Hrrborson’s estimates, and leads to a discrepancy of roughly five stellar
magnitudes between his theoretical estimate and the experimental determination
of electron-line density in meteor trails. GrEENHOW and Hawkxrns conclude that
meteors produce more ionization than was originally estimated. Instead of the
kinetic energy of the meteor being divided between heat, light, and ionization in
the ratio 104 : 10? : 1, the ratios are probably 104 : 10? : 10 for bright meteors, and
104: 10: 10 for faint meteors. These revised estimates imply that the visual
magnitudes corresponding to an echo of given characteristics is about five magni-
tudes fainter than given by Hurtorson. This means that the majority of echoes
of short duration must arise from meteors which are below the limits of naked-eye
visibility, and conversely, that all visible meteors must produce radio echoes of
long duration—a well-known observational fact.

A further consideration in the model of Hertorson is the fact that unmelted
meteorites have been found on the surface of the earth. WurppLe (1950, 1951)
has shown that the micrometeorite, if below a certain size, can dissipate the
energy gained sufficiently rapidly to permit these particles to be stopped by the
atmosphere without melting. Recalling that the Herlofson model required that
ablation of the meteorite was the initial step in the production of light and
ionization, this point warrants some discussion. GREmNHOW and Hawkins
(1952) have indicated that for radio meteors the amount of light produced is
correspondingly reduced for small meteoric particles but the relative ionization is
not reduced, but rather is generally larger than indicated by HmrLorson’s treatment.

It seems worthwhile to review briefly the physical process involved in the
interaction of a micrometeorite with the atmosphere. Since it is not believed that
ablation results for these very small particles, one might question whether or not
the ionization efficiency would become correspondingly poorer. The physical
problem is one of considering a collision of the micrometeorite with a molecule or
atom of air, with the relative energy of collision in the range from 10 to 800 eV.
The mean free path of the air is much greater than the diameter of the micro-
meteorite, and thus the problem may be treated by kinetic theory rather than
fluid dynamics.

There are several processes which might occur: (1) An elastic collision of a
molecule of air with the micrometeorite would yield a molecule with a velocity
capable of ionizing. (2) An inelastic collision of a molecule of air with the micro-
meteorites such that the air molecule enters the surface of the micrometeorite, and
thereby heats the micrometeorite and also forms a ‘“‘monolayer”’ on the surface;
such molecules if not chemically bonded to the surface might very easily evaporate
off the surface with the velocity high enough for ionization. (3) Secondary ioniza-
tion from collisions with a surface. (4) Attachment to oxygen by the collision and
the eventual addition of a free electron to the atmosphere; and (5) sputtering of

Meteor ionization in the H-region 115

the micrometeorite and the subsequent ionization by the freed particle. Experi-
mental information on collisions of neutral particles and the resulting excitation
and ionization is very limited. Much of the available information is contained in
Massny and Buruwopr (1952).

Although the ionization efficiency is much greater for electrons than for heavy
ions, as long as the ion energy is greater than the threshold value for ionization,
the possibility of ionization exists. For example. a recent technique for obtaining
velocities for neutral particles near the range of meteor velocities is the shock-tube
method of Resuer et al. (1952). It was found that the extent of ionization as a _
function of Mach number was rather large. In the case of argon at Mach 18,
argon at 1 cm of Hg pressure was 50 per cent ionized. Mach 18 corresponds to a
linear velocity of 18 x 0-350 = 6 km/sec, somewhat less than meteor velocities.
For this low velocity there also was a highly luminous region associated with the
shock fronts in both argon and air.

Berry et al. (1942) investigated the ionization of gases by collisions of their
own accelerated molecules. They found that the onset energies observed for such
ionization were roughly only three times the ionization potentials of the atoms.
They also concluded that in the range of speeds for argon between 48 eV to 1,000 eV,
relatively little change had occurred in the kinetic energy delivered to the newly
formed argon ion, and therefore it seemed unlikely that the mechanism of ionization
was one involving a transfer of kinetic energy. Also at energies of about 2,000 eV
the cross-section for ionization of argon was greater than for N, by only a factor
of 2. In fact the arrangement of the cross-sections for ionization in decreasing
order was found to be A, N,, H,, and He.

An estimate of the order of magnitude may be determined (for a few of the
reactions) from Masspy and Buruor. Although most experiments have been
made with positive ions, it seems that the cross-section for ionization in the case
of neutral atoms is at least the same order, but usually somewhat higher.

The secondary emission coefficient for surfaces, y, is the number of ejected
electrons per incident positive ion. Some observers have found a higher value of
y for surfaces which oxidize readily, implying that higher values arise from the
oxide layer. Panrow and WALCHER (1938) reason that since the electron emission
cannot depend much on the work function of the adsorbed atoms, in the case of a
monolayer of oxygen on caesium, it would follow that the extra electron emission
came from the absorbed layer itself. The value of y for the low-energy range in
the case of mi¢rometeorites and based on positive ion bombardment would
probably be in the range from 0-02 to 0-5. Allowing for an energy absorption of
10 eV for a secondary electron, these coefficients are in themselves sufficient to
give a ratio of kinetic energy absorbed in ionization for 200 eV of better than 10% ; 1.

Negative ions have been found to result from the impact of positive ions on
surfaces. ARNoT and MmuiGaNn (1936) have estimated that for incident Hg* ions
of about 200 eV energy, about 10-* Hg” ions were formed per incident ion. For
neutral oxygen atoms and molecules which also form negative ions, this ratio
could very well be higher. Positive ions incident on surfaces may be reflected
without neutralization, although it is generally felt that an ion on striking a wall
becomes neutralized. For rare gas ions incident on nickel, the reflection coefficient

116 Maurice DusIn

found by Heauna and HouTrEeRMANS (1940) was in the range from 0-2 to 0-05 for
ions of He, Ne, and A at about 400 eV.

The impact of ions on a solid surface results also in a process known as sputtering,
wherein atoms or clusters of atoms are ejected from the surface as a result of
impact. The threshold for sputtering is of the order of 40 eV, and most values
given for rate of sputtering lie between 1 and 10 gm/amp hour. For incident ions
at 200 eV the sputtering rate would probably fall to one-third this range of values.
For a surface containing atoms of mass number 60, one gram per ampere hour is
equivalent to approximately 0-5 sputtered atoms per incident ion. Thus the
sputtering rate for metallic meteorites might be of the order of one atom per
incident air particle and possibly higher for stony meteorites.

Basically, for all these processes the important parameter for ionization is the
relative velocity. The relative amount of energy absorbed by ionization should
not be different, whether or not ablation of the meteoric particle occurs. Because
of the long-mean-face path of air compared to the size of the meteoric particle, the
air particles|must act independently of each other, Effectively the cross-section
for ionization might increase during evaporation, but this is equivalent to increas-
ing the air density to allow for a larger number of collisions. Indeed, one may, as
a gross estimate, expect that on the average a fixed percentage of the kinetic
energy absorbed by the air is transmitted into ionization with an efficiency given
by GrreENHOWw and Hawkxrns’ correction of HERLorson’s treatment.

Recently WurepLe (1952) has investigated the amount of meteoric material
entering the earth’s atmosphere. From experiments of BuRNIGHT, and BoHN and
Napia, using rockets; CrozreR and SEEty on air pollution; van DE Huustr and
ALLEN by observations of zodiacal light and eclipses, and PrrrEersson and RotscHt
from observation of deep-sea sediments containing nickel: WurppL© noted that
data from these methods generally agree as to order of magnitude of the amount
of material falling into the earth’s atmosphere. From this, the frequency of small
meteoric bodies encountering the earth’s atmosphere should exceed the older
estimates based on meteors and meteorites (WATSON’s) by a factor of possibly
104. The result is perhaps 103 tons or more per day on the entire earth.

Earlier the value for the number of electrons formed per ce/sec was found to
be 2 x 10-4 electrons per cc/sec, based on WatTsoNn’s estimates and HERLOFSON’S
theory. Sincé GrEENHOW has indicated that Hrriorson’s value should be
increased by a factor between 10? and 10, and the number of micrometeorites
should be increased by a factor of 104 to 10%, the rate of production of electrons
should be mene by a factor of about 10°, giving an average production rate
of electrons of twenty electrons per cc.

Having determined roughly the rate of production of electrons, the rate of
disappearance of electrons must be considered in order to calculate the equilibrium
electron density. The rate of loss of electrons along the meteor trail is given by

2 = DY ?n — an? — ynny
Where PD is the diffusion coefficient, « the recombination coefficient, y is the
coefficient of attachment,.7, is the neutral atomic or molecular density, and n is

Meteor ionization in the H#-region 117

now the electron density. For small particles, where the number of electrons
formed per centimetre of path is small, the diffusion term is predominant, and the
train quickly decreases to the equilibrium electron density, which is thus given by

an? — rate of production of electrons.

The effective recombination coefficient for the H-region is «(O,) ~ 5.1078
em? sec—t, when O, is present, and «a(O) ~ 4 x 10-® em? sec if oxygen has been

dissociated. Thus n is approximately equal to 7. 104 and 2. 104 in the upper and
lower H-region, respectively.
3. CONCLUSIONS

The above is applicable to three effects in the H-layers. First, the diurnal variation
of the H-layer is found to agree fairly well with the (cos 7)? law for the variation
of the simple Chapman region (y is the zenith angle of the sun), The variation is
found to be almost symmetrical with reference to the maximum at noon (Mirra,
1952). However, with the accepted value of the recombination coefficient, the
#-layer ionization at night should fall to a very low value. The residual ionization
density as observed is much greater than it should be. It is therefore suggested
that this night-time value results from the bombardment of micrometeorites.

Secondly, measurements of effective electron density obtained by rockets
(Lien et al., 1953) indicated that a bifurcation, or two maxima, in electron density
were present in the H-region. It is suggested that one maximum results from solar
radiation, the other from micrometeoric bombardment.

And finally, it is proposed that the sporadic H-clouds of ionization result from
micrometeorites. Although some correlation with meteor showers is found, the
major portion of the ionization results from micrometeorites with a fine structure
undetectable by radio probing. The cloud-like structure of the H-layer very
possibly results from clouds of micrometeorites. The amount of micrometeorites,
the penetration depth, the ionization efficiency, and the distribution of the micro-
meteorites are all consistent with the conditions required for such an explanation.
Granted the laboratory evidence for the ionization process is not adequate, but
the general physical reasoning based on ionization density measurements by radio |
methods of lower visual magnitude meteorites leads to an order of magnitude that
seems very promising.

In conclusion, it may be possible also to relate the meteoric bombardment of
the upper atmosphere to the high-latitude magnetic storms and aurorae. For this
process it is necessary that sufficient photoelectric effect from solar ultraviolet
radiation be present to charge the micrometeorites and thereby allow some control
by the earth’s magnetic field. This investigation will be described elsewhere.

REFERENCES

Arnot, F. L., and Miniiean, J. C. (1936) Proc. Roy. Soc. A 156, 538

Berry, H. W. (1942) Phys. Rev. 62, 378

Berry, H. W., Varney, R. H., and Newperry, 8. (1942) Phys. Rev. 61, 63

Grerennow, J. S., and Hawxrns, G. S. (1952) Nature, Lond. 170, 355

Heatwa, M. and Hourermans, C. (1940) Phys. Rev. 58, 608

Hurworson, N. (1948) Phys. Soc. Rep. Prog. Phys. 11, 444

Lien, J. R., Marcou, R. J., UnwicK, J. C., McMorrow, D. R., Brunprorp, L., and Haycock, O. C.
(1953) Phys. Rev. 92, 508

118 MAvuRICE DUBIN

Massy, H. 8. W., and Burnop, E. H. 8. (1952) Electronic and Ionic Impact Phenomena (Oxford,
(Clarendon Press)

Mirra, 8. K. (1952) The Upper Atmosphere (The Asiatic Soc., Calcutta)

Parntow, H. and Watcuer, W. (1938) Zeits. f. Phys. 110, 69

Rester, EK. L., SHoo-Cur Lin, and Kanrrowirz, A. (1952) J. Appl. Phys. 28, 1390

Watson, F. (1941) Between the Planets, pp. 140-177 (Blakiston)

Wuierte, F. L. (1950) Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. (U.S.A.) 36, 687; (1951) Proc, Nat. Acad. Sci. (U.S.A.) 87,
19; (1952) Bull. Amer. Met. Soc. 38, 13