-1 of 2-

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

sk: ® Orricia. Recorp
FD-302 (Rev. 5-8-10) :

Date of entry 10/2023

ME © september 2023, i a i ME 2°:
a NS «ads FBI Special Agent interviewed yy
ee | xf ff FT
ee svi fecetime video. i i > i i
with P| Ll ha sat in on the interview fo and
swerve in ERI at the time of the interview). After being

advised of the identity of the interviewing agents and the nature of the
interview, PY provided the following information:

a

since JJ and had ten to fifteen hours as a drone pilot.

(i f| On September | | 2023 a was at | | || | | with three
other contractors and | FP for LiDAR tests with a After

receiving a ij MJ the five of them got into three vehicles with

Gs itiving the first vehicle and MJ as her passenger.

( gf The three vehicles began driving south around 7:30 am. The sun was
in the east with good visibility.

ll The three vehicles came to a gate that was giving P trouble.
At about three quarters of the windshield up, PF saw a linear object
with a super bright light on the east side of the object. The light was
bright white and bright enough to see bands within the light. The object was
metallic / gray in color. It did not have any wings or exhaust. The object
was smaller than a 737, one to two Blackhawk helicopters in length and was
definitely bigger than a drone. The object was approximately 5000 feet above
ground level, and moved east to west parallel to the ground. The object was
visible for five to ten seconds and then the light went out and the object
vanished. The sky was clear and MM couldn’t find the object again.

Investigation on 09/2023 - United States (Other (Facetime Video) )

riet MMM rte seaies 10/2023

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBL It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

( September 2023 I BY be
Continuation of FD-302 of ,On 09/M/2023 ,Page 2 Of 2

(GB /MMM The object stayed the same size and kept the same light intensity
during the time MJ observed it. He did not see the object as they
were coming over the small bridge at the gate until they were going through
the gate. [RJ did not notice any interference with their vehicles

(l/l GN) 2's annoyed when she first saw the object because the air

space had been restricted for the drone tests they were going to conduct.

Ml GMA in the second vehicle tried to get J] QBBJ to see the object

but was unsuccessful.

t

(Gl GMM That night a storm came through and the TV went out in
Ps hotel room. He was still freaked out and went downstairs to
make sure all the TVs were out in the hotel and not just his. yy) had
weird dreams and had trouble sleeping for the first two nights after he saw
the object.