-1 of 2-

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

® Orricia. Recorp
FD-302 (Rev. 5-8-10)

Date of entry 10/4 2023

MME © sertonber 0, a a a oo:
Tl Gs 2d: «FBI Special Agent 9 QJ interviewed yy
i of Ff | office and || so cell), in Building | ma
ee Ee ee | ff FF TF FF Ff

supervisor sat in on the interview. After being advised of the identity of

the interviewing agents and the nature of the interview, Jy EI
provided the following information:

(S22 cc I /  :-

( 7 On fF September a 2023, a was with | | contractors

working on a special project with JJ She had restricted the air space
in i } | for the upcoming tests. At 7:02 am, the contractors received

the bases’ standard PY ee ll brief, got into three

vehicles, and began driving to the site they were going to use for testing.

(0 GB eevee first venicie with i
contractors pe a | | | | and f P| were in the second and

third vehicles.

( go Between 7:15 and 7:30 am, PF drove down m7 fF to a
gate that restricted access to part of the yy IJ attempted to open
the gate remotely using a fob. The gate opened just a little and then closed
on three separate tries. On the fourth attempt the gate opened completely
and stayed open. There were no prior operational problems with that
particular gate and there were no operating issues with the gate after

September

(i /l 4: ERR) was driving through the gate she looked up and saw a

Investigation on 09/2023 at United States (In Person)

— te rafter 10/2023

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBL It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not
to be distributed outside your agency.

FD-302a (Rev. 5-8-10)

a
2023 I BY UAP

Continuation of FD-302 of

September

On 09/M/2023 page 2 of 2

cigar shaped object with an extremely bright light southwest of them
approximately 500 to 3000 feet above the nearest tree line (agent note: the
tree line was approximately one mile south west of J) position). The
object was already there when she looked up. The object was almost hovering,
slowly moving from east to west. The light was an intense diamond white
light with what appeared to be a ring around the light and was located on
the eastern end of the object. The light was pointing south east and looking
at it (the light) was like looking into the sun. The object was “metallic
bronze in color” and was the length of two or three Blackhawk helicopters
lined up nose to tail. The width of the object was approximately the width
of one and a half Blackhawks but was hard to determine due the light on the
object’s eastern end which may have been obscuring part of the body. The
object was completely silent.

Gl ll Ss was initially annoyed when she saw the object because she
had restricted the ranges for the tests they were going to conduct that

morning but then she realized the object was not an aircraft or drone.

PF inched her vehicle forward while she and FP watched the
object. They watched the object for five to ten seconds and then the object
just disappeared. The sky was clear with no clouds and the object did leave
any contrails. J] aoc J searched the sky but did not see the
object again. [MJ did not notice any interference with her vehicle’s
engine while the object was visible. She only observed the one object and
felt it left when it saw them.

(Gl GS, cove: to the test site where Jj IMJ who was a passenger

in the second vehicle said he saw the object too.

(l/l GR) would not have reported the object if she had seen it by
herself. Several of her co-workers subsequently made fun of her due to her

report;

(Gl MM ONo photos or video of the object were taken by JJ or the
contractors. JM had seen most of the aircraft and drones used by the

US military during her fifteen years working at 9 I J and had
never seen anything like the object she observed.