Headquarters Action Tracking System (HATS)
INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE ACTION
ID Number: L/1998-00407

Title: WARD/Sen Snowe fwds ltr from _ who's interested in

U.F.O. and the recent Mars photo
Recipient: L/Heffernan

Author: SNOWE

Organization: SENATE Date Written: 05/18/1998
Date Received: 05/26/1998
Date Concurred:
Date Submitted:
Date Signed: 06/24/1998
Date Closed: 06/24/1998

Action Office: L/Ward:S >>Current Due Date: 06/18/1998<<
Original Due Date:

Status: Closed
Signature Office: L/Heffernan

Info Offices: L/Heffernan, L/Heninger, L/Kerwin

Abstract:
SEN SNOWE FWDS LTR FROM ©) 8) OF STOCKINGTON, MAINE, WHO'S

INTERESTED IN U.FO.'S AND THE RECENT PHOTOS OF MARS WHICH WERE RECENTLY RELEASED.

Comments:

Enclogyres:

Relateg Records:

Keywords: (b) (6) MAINE U.F.O. MARS
File Plan: 1320.4 Analyst: BMoore

06/24/1998 Page 1 of 1

Headquarters Action Tracking System (HATS)
INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE ACTION
ID Number: L/1998-00729

Title: Rothman/UFO Sightings by Astronauts
Recipient: L/Heffernan

Author: Grassley
Organization: Senate Date Written: 08/03/1998
Date Received: 08/31/1998
Date Concurred:
Date Submitted:
Date Signed: 09/04/1998
Date Closed: 09/10/1998
Action Office: LD/Rothman:P >>Current Due Date: 08/22/1998<<
Original Due Date: 08/22/1998
Status: Closed

Signature Office: L/Heffernan

Info Offices: L/Heffernan, L/Heninger, L/Kerwin

Abstract:

Senator Grassley forwards letter from 6) who is requesting information on UFO sightings by
Astronauts.

Comments:

Enclosures: letter

Related Records:

Keywords: (6) (6) UFO, astronauts,sightings
File Plan; 1320.4 Analyst: JMassey

09/10/1998 Page 1 of 1

\ 4) low

SEP - 4 [998

L: HR:mtg:L/1998-729f

The Honorable Charles E. Grassley
United States Senate
Washington, DC 20510

Dear Senator Grassley:

Thank you for your letter of August 3, 1998, on behalf of ©) who
is requesting information about the possible sightings of Unidentified Flying
Objects (UFOs) by NASA astronauts.

Over the years there have been many objects sighted by the astronauts during
space missions. Most of these items were later identified by photographs or
NORAD records as material from launch vehicles or spacecraft or were such
items as water droplets. No unidentified materials were seen on missions to the
moon. The Air Farce, in the interest of national security, received and
investigated all reports for many years but has discontinued this activity. NASA
has no program for investigating UFOs and has not withheld information on

sightings.

In 1976, James Oberg thoroughly researched the UFO/astronaut allegations and
published an article about it in SEARCH magazine. We are enclosing that
article for (®) (6) information. In addition, enclosed is a NASA Fact Sheet
which summarizes the current status of NASA’s involvement in UFO
investigations.

We trust this information will aid you in responding tof?) (6) inquiry.
Sincerely,

ORIGINAL SIGNED BY.

Edward Heffernan
Associate Administrator
for Legislative Affairs

Enclosures

AUTS &

Since the “astronaut UFO” genre
is one of the main pillars of UFO
evidence, this study claiming that
the entire set of cases is invalid
wil Ouviousiy se recerved witn
skepticism and criticism from
Rational objections

UFO buffs.
and arguments wilil be printed and
answered in a subsequent issue of
this magazine. Critics are urged to
raise specific points not addressed

in the study, or to cite and
document facts which might
modify or invalidate conclusions
in the study.

James E. Oberg
Associate Editor

“Space World’ magazine

UrQs

Whole Story!

SEMRCH eagazine
WINTER [64

AMMERST Wi Sc. S4HY0g
Single Copy perce $Las

Space flight has opened many mysteries. True, scientists prefer to list the
puzzles solved and unknowns discovered, but as men venture beyond the
earth it is inevitable that new mysteries will be encountered. a

Somewhere out there, many observers believe, are intelligent species with
technological civilizations far more advanced than that of Earth. Perhaps
they are sending us radio signals we have not recognized. Perhaps they have
left artifacts of past visits for us to find. Perhaps they are even now keeping
the earth under surveillance. .

If they are out there, someday we will meet them. As illustrated in science
fiction, this meeting will probably occur in space. ;

Have such meetings already occurred? Have astronauts and cosmonauts
already seen alien spacecraft? The UFO literature is full of tales of “space
UFOs”. Are any of them valid? What can a careful study reveal?

H ardly a UFO book or movie is
complete without the standard
assertion that “astronauts have seen
UFOs too”. While critics may attack
the character or intelligence of many
UFO witnesses, they cannot use these
tactics on American and Russian space
pilots. Where UFO photographs can be
accused of distortion and forgery,
photographs taken by astronauts and
processed by NASA must be of the
highest trustworthiness. Hence, most
UFO scholars consider the family of
astronaut UFO sightings to be one of
the strongest bodies of evidence in the
past thirty years.

The best of these cases include
astronaut James McDivitt’s sighting of
of an “unidentified spacecraft” near
his Gemini-4 space capsule in 1965, a
curious photo of a pair of UFOs with
glowing propulsion fields taken by the
Gemini-7 astronauts, reports of nearby
Objects from X-15 and Mercury
spacecraft, tales of how the 1968-1969
Apollo moon shots were followed by
UFOs on their way to the moon, and
reports and ptiutographs of objects
seen by crewmen on the Skylab space
Station. Last year, the National Inves-

ee ~

tigations Committee on erial
Phenomena (NICAP) selected the
“McDivitt UFO” photo as one of the
four best photographs ever taken.

The ‘‘astronaut UFO” sightings
must appeal to many _ serious
researchers for a number of reasons.
The witnesses and the photographs are
unimpeachable as to honesty and
authenticity. The conditions of the
space missions can be calculated and
recorded, and every object near the
spacecraft can be determined by con-
sulting the giant space radars of the
North American Air Defense
Command (NORAD), headquartered
inside Cheyenne Mountain in Colorado.
Extensive crew  debriefings and
on-board tape recorder transcripts may
be available to obtain direct eye-
witness testimony.

With all these facts and assumptions
in mind, and mindful of the numerous
‘unsolved’ cases which might tell much
about the UFO phenomenon, I began
a special research program into this
particular body of evidénce. As an
aerospace writer, historian, and _ re-
searcher, I felt that my experience
with astronautics, computers, Air

38

Force operations, and space missions
might give me new insights into this
most puzzling series of cases. I was not
disappointed, and my results were
startling.

The basic truths behind these
sightings seems lately to have gathered
an accretion of exaggeration,
confusion, and outright fiction. The
1968 “Condon Report’? on UFOs
(conducted by the University of
Colorado for the U.S. Air Force)
found itself unable to penetrate three
specific cases, which the analyst felt
were a “challenge”? to any serious
investigator. Stories later began
circulating about sightings of lunar
surface lights and structures, and the
discovery of artifacts on the moon,
about near approaches of structured
objects, and about attempts at radio
contact between Apollo capsules and
UFOs. Recent books on UFOs give
lists of astronaut sightings which are
out of numeric sequence, misdated,
mispelled, and otherwise distorted.

My research has revealed a few
examples of deliberate photo forgeries
by UFO buffs or opportunistic authors.
My investigations in the NASA

6 (issue #)29

File Copy

yeas ee a ee

archives has revealed cases where UFO
researchers withheld certain informa-
tion freely given them by NASA
officials, infortaation which would
have clearly explained many cases
which the authors wanted to appear
mysterious. So the time has come to
take a new look at this whole
phenomenon. What is the truth about
“astronaut UFOs"?

The first step in any research might
be with the Condon report, thought
by many to have been commissioned
as a “whitewash” of the UFO
phenomenon. UFO enthusiasts are
accustomed to hearing harsh criticism
of almost all aspects of this study, but
my own objections to the “astronaut
UFO” section is from a novel angle.

My own research suggests that the
Condon investigator, far from being
the best man for the job, was clearly
unqualified to evaluate the difficult
cases. He was not familiar with the
terminology of space flight or the
basics of orbital flight trajectories, as I
am. As a result, he ignored possible
explanations while incorrectly
eliminating other possible answers.

In other words, far from being a
coverup, this chapter of the Condon
report is superficial. It is entirely
worthless as an endorsement of the
unexplained and unexplainable nature
of several astronaut sightings which I
will discuss. I can prove this remark-
able assertion to any investigator
serious enough to consider all the
evidence, much of which has never
before been published.

The Condon report does give some
details about the environment of
astronaut sightings, but even here does
not go far enough. More stress needs
to be put on the visual and photo-
graphic limitations of space flight: the
windows are far smaller than popularly
realized (about half the size of this
open magazine at arm's length), and
for many years were subject to
obscuration and smudging by seepage
of sealant and by contamination by
rocket fuel. At various points in the
flight, the spacecraft was surrounded
by clouds of debris (leaking fuel,
dumped water, chipping paint, fraying
insulation, ejected equipment, and
more), while the inside of the weight-
less cabin was usually plagued with
floating particles of dust and debris
which often passed in front of cameras
pointing out windows. Other satellites
should have been visible, since few
people realize that on any clear night

Despite the persistent

rumors

of ‘secret space

photographs taken by NASA in space are in the public domain. That is,

any picture taker:

available to anyone who wants to pay for it.
| There are four tiers of photograph
The structure is as follows:

for newsmen only

by un astronaut or an earth resources satellite is

pictures’, all |
i

availability. but two are reserved

A. The most popular space photographs taken are lithographed for
general free distribution to anyone who asks for them. Several dozen

few cents per print.

B. The NASA Public Information Offices at various centers and at
headquarters prints glossy photographs of timely news stories for

distribution

to the news media. Hundreds of these photographs are

released every year, but only certified newsmen can receive them for

free.

C. Many thousands of other photographs and drawings may be of
interest to the news media and are therefore filed at public information
Offices, but stock copies are not kept. Each request must be filled by
actual photo lab orders, which costs NASA about one dollar per

photograph.

D. Any citizen who wants copies of any photograph listed in ‘B’ or
‘C' above can get it, but it is entirely reasonable for NASA to expect
him to pay for it. News bureau photographs, along with all other flight
photography—stills and movies—can be ordered from Bara Studios, P.O.
Box 486, Bladensburg, MD 20710. The cost of any photograph ordered
by stock number is several dollars apiece. Any cross-referencing or-

researching will also cost money.

Some ground photographs of astronaut ‘accidents, autopsies, and
medical examinations are not releasable for publication. On several
Gemini flights, special photographic experiments were undertaken for
the DoD, but these involved special cameras and exclusively earth
surface targets. In neither case would it be possible to withhold any
hypothetical UFO photographs from the public.

Astronaut photographs are indexed by a code which specifies year
taken and frame number. S66-12387, for example, would be a NASA
photo (not necessarily a space photo) taken in 1966. Beginning with
Apollo, space photos were also indexed with a mission code, roll
number and frame number (neither of which were repeated on later
flights). For example, AS16-108-13005 was taken on the Apollo-16
flight, with the 108th roll of the Apollo project flight film. Movie film
is indexed per magazine with similar numbers.

Every photograph ever taken by American astronauts for NASA is
on file with Bara Studios and can be obtained by anyone willing to pay
for them. Writers who produce ‘secret NASA UFO photographs’ which
they claim are being hidden from the American public are doing a gross
disservice to one of the most open and cooperative public information

offices of any federal agency.

new photographs are added to this list every year. Cost to NASA isa |

i i al a a a eR a a el i i i a i i i a i

an observer on Earth can see a number
of orbiting objects with only half an
effort. Out of this “background noise”’,
can we separate the “signal’’ which
will indicate the existence of UFOs?

These problems all are of interest to
space officials, and numerous studies
have been made. Fragments might
imply a structural failure (a rescue ship
was almost sent to Skylab-3 because of
the crew’s observation of leaking fuel
droplets). Debris inside the cabin can
irritate eyes and damage the electronic
gear behind the instrument panels.
Other satellites might be dangerous
due to the potential of collision or
they might be of intelligence interest if
they are from some other nation.
Therefore, any mysterious space
sighting might as easily be vital for

39

es ees, ee, eect Oy es a eas: a ee et CNT, a et a a Oe

NASA to know about as it might be a
true UFO. Careful investigations are
called for.

What are some of the most famous
cases, and what are the facts? Interpre-
tations may differ, but productive
thinking can only be done when all the
information is at hand. Some of it is
hard to find or understand; other
information, available to some
researchers, may have been deliberate-
ly withheld. Some classical cases may
consist of made-up fantasies. You can
soon judge for yourself.

Has there been any attempt to
“cover up" space sightings (a common
plea when no evidence is available,
even in this age of  sieve-like
government secrecy)? Are astronauts
“muzzled” about UFOs? Has fifteen

ed

SSS eee...

. Te aT IR PY 1 me DET ren cre

The “McDivitt UFO”, prize-winning astronaut photograph taken on Gemini-4. Actually, McDivitt explained later after the flight char
the sun was coming across the window as the spacecraft rolled, the sun rays struck a metal bolt, causing theflares in the camera lens!
NASA photo 65-H-1013.

years of manned spaceflight uncovered
any evidence at all which even
remotely suggests that Earth is being
visited and observed by advanced
spaceships from another world? Let’s
look at the evidence. :

On June 3, 1965, rookie astronau
Jim McDivitt and Ed White blasted
off from Cape Kennedy (now again
Cape Canaverai), squeezed into their
Gemini-4 capsule. The two youngest-
ever American spacemen were to
spend four days in orbit, tripling the
previous US record. They would be
the first American space crewmen to
have time to sightsee in space, once
major experiments like a booster
rendezvous and a walk in space were
completed.

Approximately thirty hours into
the flight (while White was asleep),
McDivitt reported that he had seen an
object in space near his space capsule.
It appeared to be cylindrical with “an
arm sticking out’, possibly on a
collision course. Interested NASA
officials in Houston asked NORAD
which other space satellites were near
Gemini-+ at the time of the sighting,
and NORAD came up with a list of
about a dozen objects. All of them
were pieces of tiny debris or small
scientific satellites except one: the
giant, “‘winged’’ meteor - satellite,
Peyasus-2. [t seemed to (it the descrip-
tion radioed down by MeDivitt, so

NASA announced that the object had
been identified.

But Pegasus had been more than a
thousand miles away, and McDivitt
clearly saw an object much closer,
much more detailed, and in an orbit
very close to his own (“Collision
course’? to a pilot means that the
relative angle of sight is unchanging,
which would not be the case for any
satellite crossing McDivitt’s orbit). The
object became a UFO when nobody
could identify it. It has remained a
UFO up until today, but not any
longer.

McDivitt’s hasty attempt to take a
photograph of the object through his
smeared window was apparently fruit-
less, since the object’s motion
combined with the slow stabilization
spin of the spaceship carried it into the
glare of the sun after about 30 seconds.
The astronaut later recounted how he
went through all the films of the flight
(every roll of film is accounted for on
a flight manifest, so they do not
disappear) and found many over-
exposed or blank. This mission had
been the first flight in which space
photography was a major experiment,
and the glaring sunlight of space had
invalidated many pre-flight exposure
settings. MecDivitt did not find any-

‘thing which looked like “his UFO”.

What was it he saw? Why has it
become such a prominent UFO case?

40

And if the pictures did not turn out,
where did NICAP get its “top four”
photograph (which shows, not a
winged cylinder, but a smeared blob)?
We can answer these questions at last.

The first hint as to the true identity
of this space UFO can be found in
McDivitt’s own words, given at a press
conference a week after the flight
when his memory was fresh: “It
looked a lot like an upper stage ofa
booster”. Gemini does have a booster
just like it, and McDivitt had been
carrying out maneuvers near it early in
the flight. Why didn’t the jist from
NORAD include the Gemini-+ booster
rocket?

NORAD had been tracking the
objects, but NASA had not asked
about Gemini-4 and its own associated
debris—it had asked about Gemini-4
and any other earlier satellites.
Anyone familiar with computerized
information systems (one of my
professional specialities) can guess
what happened: the computer was
given a ‘“‘query’’ which told it to
compare Gemini-+ with the other
satellites. The computer never knew
where the Gemini booster was relative
to the spacecraft, since it had not been
asked. McDivitt had been visually
tracking the thirty foot long cylindar
at a range of only 75 miles a few hours
earlier, but this large satellite never
made the “NORAD list’ because

Artist's rendition of the astronauts’

SATE RET LINO TS ES: * art 4 ye grr ae
view of tho rendezvous evaluation , :

pod after it has been jettisoned from
4

the Gemini adaptor section. Gemini

cote wena eae te wk a ee

radar locked On to evaluation pod.

BET Verses rey

a. ae
apie 5 EW
ey ceceee Pit vans SE dee
. = ee ¢ stn? Ls: BEG a a
name = ae ren 8
B igi OO" =

Ps 7
Scott Carpenter took this photo of a > aaa
subsatellite balloon jettisoned by his te
Mercury-7 capsule in 1963. Balloon Z ve
did not inflate and looked like a limp ;
sleeve. Compare with photo S65-45672. ;
UFO regearcher George Fawcett has eth :
convinced many that this actually shows y ;
a “classical domed UFO” accompanied M™.
by smaller scout craft; fictional state- & ess
ments by astronaut Carpenter have Rear”

been quoted.

See plate’ 2
for Salt phot > bhbwap

bl .

re

S

ae

bo

£. foe Scere sig Here O)
Rite he Pan Bea B08 ct i ae ah Lae A

Actual Gemini-5 photo (blowup of
S65-45672) of the pod at a range of
several hundred feet. The glare and

the graininess of the enlarged image
give the subsatellite a ‘’biob”’ appear-
ance and even make it look like two
objects. The potato-shaped grey blob
is the pod’s insulation blanket,

Space engineers at Cape Kennedy prepare the
‘ “rendezvous evaluation pod” sub-satellite for a

This sequence of pictures illustrates the problem of ; joint flight with the Gemini-5 spacecraft in 1965.
Identifying photographs of objects in the glare of space.

41

2

SO nN Oe rue a ye OE Te emma ne,

(Rone ern sree set ee pm ppem ns -

t

a

OR ENTT Wr er me oe ae eobetincrt Sot 4 sede emoahae eee. oats anda tte
3 % J ee tts :

mt welt oe nemeeee

Gemini photo of 30-foot !ong Titan booster rocket nearby in orbit; Fuzziness (a familiar space photo effect) is due to magnification.
McDivitt later saw tha booster again but failed to recognize it, giving rise to the most impressive UFO case in history. NASA S-65-35452.

nobody thought to ask about it! The
list was incomplete!

What we do know from the
complete Gemini-4 transcripts
(including the on-board tape recorder
as well as space-to-ground links), is
that the UFO appeared at the same
point in the Gemini orbit where the
booster had been repeatedly spotted
earlier in the flight. McDivitt had once
described seeing his booster with
straps hanging from it. Furthermore,
on at least one occasion on the first
day, McDivitt had at first been unable
to recognize the booster when he ‘saw

it because it was close to the glare of:

the sun! This had been at a range of
less than ten miles.

Yet another important factor
unknown to the Condon report was
that McDivitt was complaining to the
flight surgeon about his eyesight
during this phase of the flight. His eyes

‘blobs of light

eee

were red and teary due to a reaction
with the cabin atmosphere and an
accidental massive urine spill. *‘I didn’t
think I was going to be able to hack
it”, McDivitt later had radioed to
Earth.

This famous UFO case now
becomes that of a pilot with watering
eyes catching sight of an object in
parallel orbit, an object which he had
already misidentified a few hours
earlier. As to the photograph, an inves-
tigator must go through all the film of
the flight to realize how common such
(overexposures,
reflections, glare, etc.) were. Both
NASA and MeDivitt have agreed that
the sequence of movie frames are a
view out the window, showing sunlight
reflecting off a bolt against the dirty
window glass. NICAD thinks
differently because of the back of its
copy of the photo is a handwritten

42

ee PR ele en et reer Nee te wer mee pe eee

note (nobody known by whom)
stating that McDivitt (nobody- knows
when) had communicated (nobody
knows how) the fact that the picture
showed “his UFO’. (This was made
clear by a telephone conversation
between the author and Jack Acuff of
N{CAP on March 5, 1976).

Why has this case achieved such
notoriety? It probably resulted from
the enthusiasm of UFO believers, the
naive openness of NASA _ public
relations officials, and the publicity-
seeking opportunism of some of the
principals.

McDivitt himself did little to clear
the case up, instead using it as a ticket
onto national TV talk shows and news
interviews (especially after his
retirement in 196? To add to the
mystery, the former spaceman asserts,
“[T have never been able to icentify it,
and [ don’t think anyone ever will.”

eis

On a recent “UFO recording”
released by Columbia, called “UFOs:
The Credibility Factor”, McDivitt
clearly shows how his memories have
changed or been changed to enhance
the mystery of his experience: “They
(NASA) checked NORAD...to see
what they had up on radar and there
Wasn't anything within very close
range of us.” Readers can measure the

credibility of this statement against.

the facts.

If McDivitt was fooled by his own
booster ten years ago, is it too much
to expect him to admit it now? What
would that do to all of his public
assertions of mystery? There is an
easier way out, and McDivitt took it
when I sent him an advance copy of
my manuscript. After keeping it two
months, he wrote back, “I was not
able to read it very thoroughly and I
cannot offer any extensive comments.
I do not foresee the opportunity for
me to provide any further relew.”
There weren’t any errors in my
analysis, he implied, but it would be
better kept quiet.

NASA never had any real doubts.
“We believe it to be a rocket tank or
spent second stage of a rocket,” wrote
a high space official on July 1, 1965.
NORAD officials, confronted with my
scenario, endorsed it: ‘Your
comments on the NORAD role related
to the case appear to be logical,”
wrote NORAD Public Information
Officer D.W. Kindschi on Feb. 23,
1976.

So the “McDivitt case” is closed.
The best space UFO case has now been
identified. Do not expect to see any
change in the UFO press, however.
Such results are simply ignored.

Photographs made in space show
negative effects, such as the “McDivitt
UFO” aura, often. Spacecraft and
astronauts may be engulfed in a
strange aura caused by overexposure
to sunlight brighter than ever seen on
Earth. Blowups of photographs of

known space objects show them
appearing as “‘blobs’”’ due to the
enlargement process and to the

courseness of the grain. Ordinary space
* pictures are full of clouds of debris,
constellations of man-made starlike
points fluttering through space.

The Condon report was fascinated
with the McDivitt case, and few UFO
enthusiasts have not heard of it. But
neither the Condon researchers nor the
average reader had ever had all the
facts. Now people can make up their

ro doubt that
Titan

own minds. I have
MeDivitl was seeing his own
booster stage.

Dr. Roach was also fascinated with
another MecDiritt sighting, that of a
point of light crossing the skv. The
object sounded just like the
appearance of an artificial earth
satellite, and that is exactly what
McDivitt thought it wes. There is no
information to suggest it was anything
else.

Another Condon favorite is a
Gemini-7 case. The report of sightings
of a cloud of debris right at the
moment of booster separation (these
particles included frozen fuel droplets,
the booster itself, assorted insulation
and structural fragments from where
the explosive bolts were fired, and
other smaller objects never identified
and never cared about) is not very
impressive. The crew, on their first
space mission, saw a few pieces they
had not expected (the pilot guessed—
wrongly—that they “were in polar
orbit”). Only a partisan digging for
evidence, and desperate to find such
evidence, would make much of this
common event.

But a sign of desperation is indeed

found in connection with the Gemini.
7 UFO case. It is not the desperation
of government officials trying to cover
up the truth about UFOs. Rather, it is
the desperation of some outsider
trying to manufacture counterfsiz
“astronaut UFO” evidence, an acti. ity
which should not be necessary if the
“real” UFO evidence were . as
persuasive as many think.
It involves a photograph showing
two very strange glowing obiects. Each
is hexagonal in shape, viewed at an

angle, and supported by a dazzling
“force field” below it. A cloud:
covered earth is seon in the

background. See plates 27628

This photograph has appeared in
books, magazines, newspapers, and
pamphlets. It is part of the travelling
slide show of UFO lecturers from the
Mutual UFO Network (MUFON) and
ae rae I have heard it described

s “showing a typical UFO force field
orenilston system”, and “similar to
other UFO photograph taken on
Earth the same year”.

The photograph is a forgery. It is a
hoax. What the anonymous counter-
feiter did (I have reason to suspect a

The author and NASA photo analyst Richard

Underwood show “space UFO” photos to Or.
J. Allen Hynek, director of the center for UFO
studios, July, 1976, Hynek subsequenziv en.

dorsed Obery’s conclusions.

Saturn booster S-IV-b and four open “SLA”
panels. On moon flights the four “petals!!
fly free and, together with the empty boost-
er, tumble through space a few miles from
the Apollo capsule. They were often seen as
bright flashing lights as they reflected tho
powerful sunlight. On Apoilo-1 2, astronaut
descriptions of these fragments were mis-
interpreted by UFO buffs and metamorph-
ized Into alien spacecraft. 1G

“Mysterious” bulls eye object
seen and photographed by Gem-
Ini-6 astronauts in December, 1965,

Unfortunately for flying saucer
buffs, it is not a UFO; it is an out of
focus photo of the approaching
GeminlI-7 spaceship, nose on,

NASA photo S-65-65296. @)

The viow from inside

early space capsules
was timited and often
plagued by dirty win-
dows and bright ra-
flections. Gene Cernan,
Gemini-9. NASA photo

44

COLLIS. POLE MISS IRL FATTY SLY TLIC EN: SBE SADE NOV SY SFarta* Foe AR AVN 62 Seats eee Me oa Hap d at

Photo of Gemini-7 from Gemini-6, December 1965. The brightness aura is a common space photo effect and often makes
point sources appear to be surrounded by a “‘force field” or an ‘exhaust trail’. NASA photo S-65-65304,

Japanese UFO organization) was take
an ordinary photograph of Earth made
from the Gemini-7 spaceship on
December 4, 1965. The nose of the
spacecrait fills the tower part of the
frame, and on the nose, catching the
glare of the sun, is a pair of roll
control rocket thrusters used to adjust
the attitude and spin rate of the
Gemini. The original photo (NASA
$65-63722, which I have personally

examined) was then retouched by the
unscrupulous hoaxter to eliminate the
edge of the nose from view, so the
dark surface of the spaceship merged
into the dark Earth beneath. This left
the two now” mysterious lights
seemingly suspended in space, as it
were. A normal space tourist photo
was turned into convincing UFO
evidence, and thousands of people
were fooled.

45

American spacemen are not the
only ones reporting UFOs, according
to the popular press. Stories that
allegedly come from Moscow tell
about UFOs following Soviet manned
spacecraft in the Vostok and Voskhod
series ten years ago. But such secrecy
surrounds the entire Soviet space
effort that these stories cannot be
checked out.

That very secrecy, however, is itself

a powesfal argume nh a scintot tie
validity of the rumtusc. Sa mens
ordinar, thiazs about the Soviet space
program are secret (and long prison
terms avait anyone who even
accidentally divulyes such dats) chat it
is incredible that so senouive and sig-
nificant a fuct asa UFO sighting could
ever leak out, even if such a thing had
really happened.

The rules of evidence have been
stretched and broken by
partisans. It isnot up to me to “prove”
that these sightings never took place.
Nobody has as yet seen any evidence
apart from a simpie statement of fact
that the sightings did take place. I will
be happy to consider evidence when it
becomes available.

Let’s examine more of these
“cosmonaut UFOs”. In UFOs From
Behina The Iron Curtain, the UFO
magazine ‘Clypeus’ is quoted about an
object seen by both Vostok-5 and
Vostok-6, a fleet of disks seen by
Voskhod-1, and “strange cylinders in
space which were perfectly formed
and had no apertures” seen by
Voskhod-1, Voskhod-2, and Gemini-t
(sic!). UFOs have even been blamed
for the malfunction of the Voskhod-2
autopilot. As I have said, these
“reports” are hardly evidence, and can
be far more easily manufactured than
refuted.

Surely one of the most specious
and ghoulish “space UFO” stories
deals with the Soyuz-11 flight, on
which the crewmen perished during
their return to Earth. UFO literature
has recently been circulating a
“transcript” between the cosmonauts
and ground control. The crewmen
describe several glowing red objects
and discuss them with flight
controllers.

To anyone familiar with typical
space-to-ground communications, this
“transcript” is patently counterfeit.
Someone’s vivid imagination,
emboldened by the knowledge that
the men were dead and could not
argue, must have created the entire
incident.

Without further evidence, the entire
class of “cosmonaut UFOs’ must be
rejected. Deliberate attempts to
“muddy the waters” and to
manufacture fantasies are common in
this UFO genre, as in others.

In investivating photographic
evidence of UFO) sivhtings by
American astronauts, [ worked clusely
with Richard Underwood at the NASA
Johnson Space Center (formerly me

UFO |

Center) near
is an enperi-

Speccerale
liusiston. Underwood
enved photuinterpreter who has
examined every single photograph
brought back from orbit and beyond,
and = his ineredible memory can
ideniity a dacade old photograph,
describe the situation, and find the
citation ia ti:e old record books within
minutes. Tne office of this photogra-
metric engineer is full of stacked film
vans, light tables, world and !ocal maps,
and piles of letters from ex-astronauts
and ordinary citizens alike.

Has he seen any UFOs? Underwood
answered that with a simile: “I’ve never
found anything in these pictures that
puzzled me for long, and I’m kind of
disappointed. It would be terribly
exciting to find evidence for someone
else’s spaceship!” When UFO writers
hint broadly about a “NASA coverup”
or “space censorship”, they are
essentially calling Dick Underwood
and his colleagues a pack of liars.

Distortion and withholding of the
truth is not astranger to Underwood's

Mantied

nnn

office, however. When a UFO
researcher named Alan Sandler was
working on a book and a movie
(“UFOs: Past, Present and Future’, to
he advertised as a “documentarv’’) he
visited Underwood's office and looked
through dozens of rolls of film, writing
down orders for prints of anything
that looked interesting. This is a
standard service provided by NASA to
journalists.

Sandler chose a set of photographs
for his movie, pnotographs which
Underwood advised him probably only
showed dust particles in front of the
camera, debris outside the spacecraft,
or glare on the windows (this was easy
enough to prove by looking at pictures
ahead of and behind the shots in
question). Two photographs were
particularly upsetting.

They both showed a black back-
ground with a string of lights in the
middle of the photograph. In the book
(with the same name as the movie,
although written by another author,
Robert Eimeneggar) the two shots are

Phoie of Aguns-12 from Gemini-12, This ts part of a sequence of photos which takes tne

Agena from tight uta dark, After dark, only the running lights are visinle. One researcher

has widely published this latter photograph asa “UFO”, “said by NASA to be Agena track-

NASA photo $-66-63101.

46

ing lights”.

a ta Lptintn aa m a2 + oe

+ ee meee ee eee Ee Se ro abe

“Said to be ranging lights” on Gemini-12, according to Sandler. Compare with
earlier photo showing Agena in the sunlight. Deliberate slanting of evidence.

reproduced with the caption: “Shot
during Gemini XII on November 13,
1966, and said to be Agena Ranging
Lights prior to docking”. The
erroneous implication of these twisted
words is that this is another NASA
excuse for some remarkable UFO
photographs. Said to be ranging lights,
indeed, sneers the book!

“That’s exactly what tney were!”
Underwood told me plaintively. “They
are part of the complete sequence of
twenty photographs showing the

‘ Agena as it moves from the sunlit
side of Earth into the shadow”.

As Underwood and I stood in the
photo laboratory inside building No. 8

_ at the historic Houston space center,
the sequence was right there in frout
of our eyes on the glowing viewing
board. How did the “UFO researcher”
react to this explanation, I asked?

He continued to explain: “I took
the whole sequence with me to
Hollywood along with other films
which NASA was providing. I showed
the sequence to Sandler. He wasn’t

interested. Unfortunately he went
ahead and used the photographs
anyway”. Thousands more people

were deccived.

The flight of Gemini-11 Leyan a
long battle between astronaut Charles
“Pete” Conrad and UFO believers. The
astronauts had taken three even more
remarkable photographs. “Pete”
Conrad had spotted a moving object
outside his window and had snapped
off a few frames of film, varying the
exposure on each shot in an attempt
to get at least one yood viev which
would show soniething.

Per a request from NASA, NORAD
soon reported that the object had been

47

2 Rus Clie my oratory Cuties
Proton-3. According to Air Faves
computers, it ‘vould have ecessea
Gemini’s orbit several huadved miles
beilind the spacecraft. Yet this object
was in a different di:oction aad was
miuch tvo close. It was a UrO!

Despite these objections, NORAD
vas right for the wrong reascns. Tre
ebject was indeed Proton-3, even
though the Aerial Phenomenon
Research Organization (APRO) and its
research directoi, Dr. James Harder, nas
made much of the discrepancy and
considers this the best Gemini UFO
ever seen. (£€€ pletes 17,1816 23,24)

Few researchers have noticed. and
none had recognized the significance
of the fact, that the Proton-3 satellite
was only hours away from burning up
in the atmosphere. As its orbit
decayed toward a fiery doom, it
circled Earth faster and faster, running
ahead of the schedule predicted by
NORAD. .

The simple truth, often igaored or
distorted by many writers, is that
NORAD does not “track everything in
space”’ like the radar screens of some
air traffic control center. Instead,
objects which pass through the beams
of a handful of worldwide radar sites
(at a range of a thousand miles ox less}
are observed and catalogued, and their
orbits are calculated. These calcula-
tions are then projected forward in
time (the mathematical term is “‘extra-
polated’’) to plot where the spacecraft
should be if its orbit hasn’t been
changed.

Gemini’s orbit had been changed by
a rendezvous rocket firing. Proton’s
orbit was changed by its decay. I
ordered microfilm copies of the last
few NORAD predictions from the
Tracking Reports Section at the NASA
Goddard Space Center in Greenbelt,
Maryland, and as soon as I read them I
knew the answer.

The predictions were off by several
hundred miles per day! Each new
projection made a correction to the
previous one. Using a combination of
these figures, a new altitude difference
between Gemini and Proton could
easily be computed. It was entirely
close enough to coincide with the
astronauts’ sighting.

Furthermore, the astronauts had
made a visual as well as a photographic
record. Their evewitiess testimony
describes a satellite that looks like
Proton-3 looked, as shown by exhibits
in Russiaa museums: a stubby cylinder

with four large trianyular canted solar
panels. (Conrad compared the sight to
the strap-on boosters of a Titan-3 histchion Gemiaiis,
rocket.) Even the photographs show ©

Ovebris from open

this when studied with real Proton-3
photographs close at hand.

Astronaus Conrad and the UFO
people clashed again over his next
space mission, Apollo-12. According
to the Research Director of APRO, Dr.
Harder, Conrad reported that he was
being followed by a UFO on the way .
to the moon. Conrad claims that it was
just a joke about the large panels which
enclose the lunar module during
launch but are jettisoned later in the
flight and which tumble through space
a few miles from the Apollo all the
way to the moon. Harder says that
Conrad, under pressure from a secret
government agency, is lying.

These are Conrad’s words:
“They’ve been after me for years
because we were followed by a UFO
on’ the way to the moon. That, of
course, was untrue. The guy who came
up with it was going by our transcript
where we saw debris from our own
rocket and we were joking with the
ground crew about it. He took this out
of context. . .I called the ground and
said, ‘hey, gang, we’re being followed,
there’s some flashing object out there’.
Some scandal sheet took that and

Fragment in focus at range
of 3 to 5 feet—Sandler calls
it “unidentifiable”, and
Mallan and Barry also use it,
Se nlarsinert of 16)

Suir SESS

Blowups of Gemini—11 photos of
Proton-3. Sun glare and extreme
magnification contribute to
bizarre appearance,

made a helluva story out of it. But it
was nothing like anything I was
connected with”. Conrad has left
NASA and lives in Denver, presumably
beyond the reach of any NASA
censors. He describes a phenomenon
common to all Apollo moon flights;
the claim that he saw a UFO is also
common, but hardly as valid.

Conrad confirmed these quotations
in a letter to me dated April 12, 1976.
“I hope your paper is widely printed,”
he added. Referring to Harder’s claim
of coverup, Conrad could only say: “I
think you have more than your share
of Kooks.”

ene ee

ve

Gemini-11 photo of Proton-3 (arrow) and extreme enlargement of image. UFO magazines often print fuzzy blobs without indicating
that object was highly magnified. Film artifacts cause ‘blobbiness’’.

Let’s take a moment to look at the
Apollo-12 flight more carefully. It
probably rates as one of the most
“UFO-ridden” space flights ever made,
and probably did more than any
Apollo mission to encourage the
stories of astronaut sightings of UFOs.
.What lies behind all these stories? Who
started them? What is the “official”
NASA position?

Apollo-12 was launched on
November 14, 1969, on the second
moon landing mission. The crew
consisted of Gemini-11 veterans
“Pete’’ Conrad and Richard Gordon,
and space rookie Alan Bean (Conrad

had also flown into space on
Gemini-5.) Taking off during a
thunderstorm, the craft was twice hit
by lightning which threatened to
abort the mission.

Instead, the flight proceeded
successfully to the first pinpoint moon
landing four days later. Astronauts
Conrad and Bean flew their Lunar
Module in to a precision touchdown
near the Surveyor-3 automatic moon
probe. During a scheduled moon walk,
the men retrieved samples from the
robot craft. The return on Earth was
“routine”, if fights to the moon can
ever be considered routine.

49

«atte nm)

Th TPE eres

NASA photo S-66-54661.

On the outbound leg, Conrad had
radioed to Earth that the Apollo was
“being followed”. This message, trans-
mitted over the open radio link, was
heard by hundreds of newsmen and by
millions of Americans. It immediately
gave rise to new UFO stories.

According to the account best
known to UFO believers (published in
Saga magazine, May 1970, entitled
“Apollo 12’s Mysterious Encounter
with Flying Saucers”, written by T.G.
Beckley and H. Salkin), the astronauts
watched two flashing lights near their
Command Module about 150,000
miles out from Earth. At first, the

ELE a en Tne mone Sem ON oe

, 2 SE See eam. 8 ber eapasecnadigl 7
4 nas {%
H

ground thought it was their S-IV-B
booster rocket but quickly calculated
that it would have been in a different
direction. Next, they suggested that
the lights could have been pieces of

the Lunar Module “garage”, calied

“SLA Panels”, which are quite large
and highly reflective. Conrad, so the
UFO story goes, remarked that this
was unlikely since one of them had
suddenly taken off at a high velocity,
something that a piece of space debris
simply could not do. Finally, the.

astronauts decided to ignore the
apparently harmless escort and carry
on with their mission

In lunar orbit, new (or perhaps the
same) UFOs dogged the spacemen.
During the descent to the lunar
surface, millions of television watchers
on Earth saw bright objects crossing
the field of view of the Apollo TV
cameras. Similar objects were seen
during the launch from the moon and
during the final approach to Earth.

Here, then, is a major case for
Rivne FLAW

St rr rn re oe

4 4 of obvious spacecraft insulation

Apoilo-11 UFO, 1969. Object
tumbled past window immediately
atter Apolio pulled away from
Saturn booster. Metamorphosis

fragment into “odd-shaoed UFO”
is courtesy of Bob Barry of the
fringe “2oth Century UFO Bureau”,

Hans Holzer’s “U fonauts” (1976)
assigns object to John Glenn’s
flight, invents fictitious commentary
and continues weaving myths un-
fettered by facts.

ike & o th

“astronaut UFO sightings”. Besides
the three astronauts, millions of
Americans saw the TV images and
heard the voices of the crewmen
wondering what the objects could be.
They were obviously unidentified,

they were flying in space, and they
were objects of some sort. Hence, they
were UFOs.

The “Fawcett List” of space UFOs
says that the astronauts “said a UFO
accompanied them all the way to
within 132, 000 miles of the moon,

Mercury-7. “Con-2d UFO”on Scott Carpentar’s flight in 1963, Smears and glares change from @)
Ona trame to the next whilw astronaut was snapping pictures of limp balloon sub-satellite,

SNe ye Ay3.4 ,S

50

nrorrr

ee eS eer rrr me

3

4

F

be ~

Sen,
baat |
a iby
sy
ae
hy
i So ney
se
ise +
Ld Ld
ee
ie lt
santas cabndicta thea es Aeeene SU tte SR s*

as EE ETT 88 SRT TTT ETT ETN IY TS EES I TE Se NE PYRITE OS EW OE SPOT CLT TOS FT EN Tae, OPN, oe
1
2
y

Two objects drifting out of open hatch (lower right) of Gemini-12. Both specks are out of focus and hence are within sevaral feet of camera.
-which had a very large depth of field. Object on right, in focus, is a scrap of paper. NASA photo S-66-62871.

preceding them all the way.’ The
origin of that mileage figure is obscure,
but it lends unwarranted authenticity
to the report. .

Observatories in Europe also
watched the two UFOs, cther sources
reveal. Embellishing the story, another
UFO source claims that “Next day,
the 15th, at 21.15 hours, one bright

revolving light approached the Apollo
12 spacecraft.’’ Fawcett, not to be
outdone, also claims that the
astronauts photographed the UFO (or
UF9Qs).

One of the loudest proponents of
the Apollo-12 UFO is APRO research
director Dr. James Harder. At a UFO
symposium at the University of

Sl

California at Santa Cruz on November
8, 1975, Harder claimed that one UFO
“followed Apollo 12 on three orbits
around the moon”. Further, “NASA
suppressed the UFO incidents for fear
of panic’, but Harder was able to
discover the sightings because it “was
disclosed by a member of the space
team’? who he refused to identify.

Since all the material Harder used to
“prove” the existence of the incidents
were public information (Harder could
have read it in Saga, which is hardly a
top secret government report), his
reference to a coverup and to secret
inside information were clearly only
gimmicks to impress the news media
with the value of his “information”’.

NASA, meanwhile, says that no
such UFO event took place. The lights,
according to Dale Myers (Associate
Administrator for Manned Space
Flight: quoted in a letter dated Feb. 5,
1973 to Mr. Donald Ratsch of APRO},
were spacecraft fragments: ‘During all
of our Apollo lunar missions, objects
have been sighted by the various
crews. Subsequent to the crew
sightings, the flight controllers
determined the observations were
probably either the S-IVB booster, the
spacecraft lunar adapter (SLA) panels,
or smaller objects such as mylar foil
particles. Because of their large size
and highly reflective surfaces, the
S-IVB and SLA panels should be
visible at great distances in the space
environment. . .”

Astronaut Conrad, as quoted
earlier, claimed that the flashing lights
were obviously SLA panels but that he
was joking with the ground. He
denounced the Saga story explicitly
and gave his opinion that Harder was a
“kook”. Astronaut Gordon has
publicly stated that he has never seen a
UFO on any space flight. Alan Bean,
the only one of the three still on active
NASA duty, issued a statement soon
after Harder’s latest charges went out
over the news media late in 1975. Ina
UPI dispatch:

“Astronaut Alan Bean...said that

at no time during his mission did he
ever see an unidentified object. Bean
said that there were some metallic
parts which floated behind their space-
craft after the Apollo-12 !unar module
lifted off from the sioon. He said
these small pi-ccs were visible until
they (the ustronauts) made an engine
burn t*%e metallic objects were parts
of the insulation which came off the
lunar module during the launch phase
and lunar orbital phase. ‘At no time
‘did we see anything which was not of
our spacecraft, either during lunar
orbit or during the voyage to and from
the moon,’ Bean stated.”

To Harder and his “NASA
coverup”, these statements are just
more lies designed to confuse the
American public. So let’s go back to

the key Apollo-12 UFO encounter and
try to determine just who is confused.

Late on November 15th, 1969,
about 150,000 statute mites from
Earth, the Apollo crew was talking to
capsule communicator astronaut
Ger&id Carr about some lights they
were watching out their window.

Apollo: The object is very bright
and it is obviously something that is
tumbling. It is tumbling (at) one and
one half rev(olution)s per second, or at-
least it is flashing at us (at) about that

CAPCOM: Roger. We are standing
CAPCOM: (Apollo) 12, (this is)
Houston.

Apollo: Go ahead.

CAPCOM: As best we can tell,
looking at things down here, on those
SLA panels, we assume they weren’t
imparted with any great amount of
delta-V (velocity change)—like
anything more than one or so feet per
second when they _— separated
(thirty-three hours ago). Your SLA
panels would probably be only about
300 (nautical) miles (345 statute
miles) away from you right now.

**** The following reply by
Conrad has been claimed by UFO
believers to indicate that the lights
(the so-called ‘SLA panels”) have
suddenly pulled away from the
Apollo, something that a tumbling
piece of debris could not do. To
clarify the meaning, punctuation and a
few extra parenthetical words have
been added by the UFOlogists:

Apollo: That could be true, but gee
whiz, when I (just) turned around I
saw one of those “SLA panels” leaving
the area at a high rate of speed, and it
looked to me like it was leaving us
pretty (fast)—at a pretty rapid clip,
like it got a lot more than a foot per
second or so.

CAPCOM: Well, since we don’t
really have any idea how they left, or
what their trajectory could be, it’s
kind of tough really to say just what
the heck that could be.

Apollo: Okay. We'll assume it’s
friendly anyway, OK?

The UFO reasoning, as worded by
APRO member Brad Sparks, goes as
follows: “After the SLA panels
separated and the S-IVB’s tanks were
emptied (on Noy. 14) they could not
change their velocity simply because
they had no form of propulsion to do
so. But Conrad saw one of the “SLA
panels” (on Nov. 15th) suddenly leave

52

its position at a “high rate of speed”,
an inipossibility, unless it really was a
maneuverable spacecraft of some sort.
But where does one find a
maneuverable spacecratt nearly
159,000 miles from the earth? The
answer: (excepting Apollo 12 itself) in
November of 1969 there weren't any.
The conclusion is inescapable: One
(possibly two) maneuverable
spacecraft not of man-made origin
were following our Apollo 12 on
November 14 and 15, 1969.”

To anyone familiar with the flight
plan of an Apollo moon flight,
Conrad’s words imply nothing of the
sort. Two facts must be brought to
mind. First, Apollo and the Capcom
were discussing the present position of
the SLA panels based upon their initial
separation velocities from the spent
S-IVB rocket stage. Second, the SLA
panels break free after the Apollo pulls
off from the booster; the astronauts
then perform a maneuver called the
“turnaround” the Command Module
returns to the booster to dock with
the now-exposed Lunar Module,
before pulling the LM free from its

Striking the UFOlogist’s punctua-
tion and clarifying words from the
communication, and putting it in
proper perspective, what Conrad was
saying was: <

Apollo: That could be true (that
the SLA panels were flying off at one
or so feet per second), but gee whiz,
when I turned around (right aftér they
flew free, thirty-three hours ago) I saw
one of those SLA panels leaving the
area (of the LM “garage’’) at a high
rate of speed, and it iooked to me that
it was leaving us pretty.. .at a pretty
rapid clip, like it got a lot more thana
foot per second or so. :

The UFO believers’ reasoning—and
the entire basis for Harder’s and for
the Saga article’s Apollo-12 UFO
sighting—is phony. The most generous
description of it would be a mistake, a
misreading of the transcript’s meaning
in an attempt to “prove’’ a UFO
incident that never really happened
outside of the fertile imaginations of
certain UFO believers. Conrad's
statement, Gordon's statement, Bean’s
statement, and the NASA letter must
stand validated on this case: Apollo-12
was not followed by a UFO on its
to the moon.

But how about on the way back?
“A light of indistinct shape” was
spotted just prior to re-entry,

t
i
nd

tas

3

AR
ers

OS we Pats a atte,

' Fe a ~ a
1. oo aoe |

ot

rr aval in.

AMM N:
4 wy \

Wet ae ot wetcnnhia ast tALcs o

11 photo. Proton

contributed to bizarre shapes

1967. Four canted solar panels
on the Gemini
weighed 27,0Qbs, Its outer

shroud was 14.8 feet in

diameter.

wey 2

Proton satellite shown for the
first time at Paris air show, May

\ ~ 4 - is

‘: we 4 a *

re Ps es
A" ® dns aa
AS

WM AL

ee

Publisned nawspaper story on UFSs captions this pnoto:”"* These two UFOs were

photographed on July 19, 1969-the day dbcfore Apotio’s historic moon landing--
during Buzz Aidrin’s scheduled lunar photo session. Note the similarity to the

shot snapped three years earlier during Gemini-12.”

according to UFO sources. Saga
reports that “...at 11:47 a.m. on
November 24th, the spokesman for
Apollo 12 reported in a startled voice
that they were all watching a bright
red object flashing brilliantly against
the earth.”’ This incident was carefully
analyzed by Brad Sparks of APRO (I
am indebted to his letier to Saga of
August 28, 1970, a letter Saga editor
never bothered to answer), who
objects that “the astronauts did not
report that the object they were seeing
was red, and they stated specifically
that ‘it’s a steady light’, not flashing.”
It was seen between them and the dark
earth, somewhere off the coast of
India by a guess of the crewmen.
Perhaps it was a ship’s searchlight,
perhaps a fire, perhaps a violent
lightning storm. . .there is no reason to
suspect that it was a craft in space.
The astronauts lost sight of the light as
they turned the Apollo to take a series
of photographs of the sunrise.

The wild fantasies printed in Saga
do not end here. Beckley and Salkin
claim that the astronauts had been
“startled by unaccountable seismic
disturbances on the lunar surface.”
This event never occurred; there were
no such earthquakes during their visit.

Beckley and Salkin refer to “a
mysterious blue halo encircling one of
our spacemen."’ Sparks of APRO
considers this to have been lunar dust

‘kicked up while the crewmen were

walking around. Photo analyst Dick
Underwood suggested that it is a
defect in the development of the
photo caused by the vivid solar glare
off of a highly ¢efleetive surface:
Underwood quickly located half a
dozen similar “haloes” on other space

photos taken during the 1960s.
Whatever it was, this “halo” appeared
only in the photo, and was neither
seen nor remarked on by _ the
astronauts.

Houston radio commentator and
UFO enthusiast Frank Haley has his
own theory about why the Apollo-12
TV camera did not work on the moon
(NASA says Bean accidentally pointed
it toward the sun). Says Haley, “The
camera was intentionally shut off to
avoid showing something on the moon
that disturbed the astronauts”
(‘“‘Haley’s Comment” newsletter, Mar.
22, 1976). It is only a matter of time
before this nonsense is absorbed into
the lore of the “Apollo-12 UFOs”.

But Apollo 12 did see some
unidentified flying objects, and NASA
engineers were justifiably concerned
that they could have been debris from
important spacecraft systems which
might indicate unexpected failures, or
which might interfere with other
spacecraft equipment. Hence, the
Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston
(now the Johnson Space Center) gave
a contract to Lockheed to study the
objects seen on the T'V pictures and on
some movie film.

The Lockheed report was quietly
issued on March 18, 1970, about the
same time that the sensationalized and
fictionalized Saga story was being
printed. Titled “Unidentified Visual
Phenomena Associated with Space
Flight” (NASA Contract NAS 9-5191,
LEC/HASD No. 671-80-013), the
report documents the “moon pigeons”
(a term “coined by NASA engineers to
describe unexpected objects seen in
operational plotoyraphy that defy
positive identification”) of Apollo-12.

54

Contract engineers were FLD. Beates
aud JG. Baron.

“Unidentified visual phenoniena
associated with space flight were
rather common operationally,” revea!
the authors.” but." little or no
docuraentation of past events has been
macie."’ Before UFO believers jump up
and duwn with confirmation of a
whole new family of “astronaut
sightings of UFOs”, the authors
announce their intention of
demonstrating that"such events were
spacecraft debris associated with an
earlier pyrotechnical operation, or ice,
or window reflections. Cases for each
of these theories have been presented
and exhibits of similar occurences are
included. Positive identification was
not possible... The quality of the
imagery precludes a precise definition
of the object under question... In
general, it takes much more
information to identify an object that
it’ does to detect it.”

Sixteen millimeter color magazine
1165M, exposed on Apollo-12, shows
three objects, called “‘A”, “B”, and
“C’. The objects appeared during the
LM jettison maneuver in lunar orbit.
“A” is believed to be a small segment
of the docking channel; “B” was
identified by engineers as a portion of
the docking ring, possibly the
fiberglass seal; ‘“‘C’’ was probably part
of the electrical harness. All were near
the spacecraft and were tumbling.
From this and other examinations,
Beatty and Baron concluded that
“most ‘moon pigeons’ have as their
source a programmed pyrotechnic
event and are the normal debris
associated with such an incident. They
are often spectacular... The main
thing to be learned from this study is
that the event (in question) was, in all
probability, a normal result of routine
spacecraft operations... These data
will undoubtably be of use to the
engineering, scientific, and public
relations communities.”” The closing
reference clearly indicates that Beatty
and Baron were aware of the “Apollo-
12 UFOs” controversy and felt that
their study would be useful in
demolishing any UFO buffs’ wild
rumors.

Unfortunately, the “moon pigeons”
report seems to have been filed away
in the NASA archives. Baron. who still
works at the Johnson Space Center,
told me early in L976 that he never
got any feedback on his report, even
though it was fun doing it and it had

ee

Pn aN alt FSI RY FENN My IE TRANS bn OR,
f al

i

roe eS

am

S54”

Re

ws

aa Og hee ae eA

“~3 x (i gi

reyes. VAT ae a, 2%:

4 pee

This photo was snapped only moments after Aldrin’s other Apollo 11 sigh Hore the two UFOs
have begun their separation and a halo-like force field between the two is cleatly shown. ror

pretty obvious implications for UFO When presented with the Saga story
reports. NASA apparently decided to “Exclusive NASA Photos” and NASA and with APRO’s (and MUFON 3)
let the UFO writers spread their cfnsorship is another part of myth. These account of the ‘“tmaneuvering alien
rumors, hoping that the stories would Apoilo-11 spots are highly magnified spacecraft at 156,000 miles from
fade away if ignored. window reflections in Lunar Module deep Earth”, the average citizen could only
What had happened, though, was a in space (Aldrin turned the camera on by assume that it might indeed be true. If
new shot in the arm for “astronaut accident while checking equipment), NASA was denving it, well then, the
UFO cases”. The explanations could governinent has been known to lie to
never catch up with the misinterpreta- us in the past.
tions and wrong impressions It is a vain hope to imagine that the
engendered by the overheard truth will ever catch up to the Apollo-
conversations and viewed images trom 12 and other UFOs. As detailed here,
Apollo-12. Millions of Americans were the Apollo-L2 UFO never existed,
practically eyewitnesses to a “space Somehow, millions of people believe
UFO”, and were suitably impressed. that it did. There is sufficient blame

35

for this delusion to be yencrously
distributed to UFO buffs, NASA
public affairs officers, sensation-
seeking news media, and lazy readers.
And the “‘astronaut UFO” genre is not
yet complete. Let’s return to some
more examples.

Another example of selective
omission of facts occurs in the

Gemini-7 photo of sunlight glinting off

roll thruster rockets on nose. Photo

forgers airbrushed the nose/Earth bound-

ary out, making the two lights appear to

be floating in space. NASAphoto S65-63722.

PHoto A

Forgery CaM OC “ENliNiess 1m spite OF cony-
fight regulations Secause this is a3 NASA
photo, Even retouched, it cannot be
copyrighted.

iso ReveRs eh 6¥:9)

ae ee ai Lee all ae - yewete aerate e ce 4
f i

sa

ney ae
b LSP Fay Gee bs MOCO Oe Cee ge Re ary OT ere

i

= bi : ‘ eae oe

NASA photo (right) SL3-118-2140 and variations )
and below) as published with erroneous captions.

ait b ETE Bi QIAO Sn ree epe are rene meee 8

“Fawcett list” of astronaut sightings.
George rawcett is a respected and
level-headed UFO researcher in
Maiden, North Carolina. But an
example of his work gives a different
impression:
“Gemini-XII: Jim Lovell and Edwin
Aldrin saw four UFOs linked in a row.
Both spacemen said the objects were

tracking practice. The balloon did not
inflate but spun in a limp oblong sack.
The flight schedule and the voice
transmissions confirm this unexciting
explanation—and confirm Fawcett’s
fantasizing.

An example of the difficulty of
“disproving” an ‘astronaut UFO
sighting” is the Mercury-9 case in

inset thant

not stars” (quoted from The Edge of
Reality, Hynek & Vallee, 1975, page

From the GT-12 Astronaut
Debriefing, page K/3,4, Lovell relates:

1963. Well established in the UFO
lore, the story claims that on the 15th
orbit, over Muchea, Australia, the
astronaut (Gordon Cooper) saw a
green object. More than one hundred

“During the last EVA we discarded, in
addition to the ELSE (life support
system), three bags. About 2, maybe
3 or possibly 4, orbits later at sunrise
condition, we looked out again and
saw 4 objects lined up in a row and
they weren’t stars I know. They must
have been these same things we tossed
overboard.”

The original distortion of this
entirely ordinary event, according to
the Condon’ Report, is the
responsibility of UFO wnter, John
Keel, Fawcett took it and embellished

JERSEY Fee erent es eer aT N rere
7° wy OOS eee! Lay) bead wa SE w: ‘

.? Po wh
ead ae mare ed we

people at the tracking station saw the

bogie on a radar screen (this wasn’t er ae

Shot during Sky Lab l/l second manned Sky Lab
Flight 263 day of 1973—1645 Zulu Time.
NASA Photo =SL3-118-2140 (4 shots taken)
Listed as unidentihed object or satellite by NASA
Photo Evaluation Lab

Another of Fawcett’s favorites is
Mercury-7: “Scott Carpenter reported
that he had what looked like a good e
shot of a saucer.’’ Elsewhere he |
claimed that Carpenter “took a
photograph of a classicat saucer-shaped ;
UFO with dome that followed his 4
capsule.” Se plate Zi DES ot ee

In fact, the photographs show an ee
entirely ordinary object: a space 31
balloon ejected from the capsule for

37

sensational enotgh for fictional “fact”
writer Fring Edvard: he had two
hundred people actually see the
object).

The source of the story seems to
have been an NBC newsman in
Australia. But the probiem seers to be
that Cooper has never heard of it. He
has been out of tie space program for
seven years, and talks freely about
UPOs to reporters, to the Columbia
“UFO recording”., to Mike Douglas,
to friends and associates. Somehow he
knows nothing about “his” space
UFO—and he has no reason to be
silent. His space UFO never existed.

Confronted by this evidence,
Fawcett (letter of May 10, 1976)
insists that “I sincerely believe some of
the astronaut sightings are bonafide,
based on some of my sources of
information.” John Keel, too, recalls
(letter of March 26, 1976) that “‘ex-
NASA engineers have told me all kinds
of fascinating UFO tales...” Always
these writers fall back on “secret
reports” and “private information”
when their published reports and open
articles disintegrate in the face of the
truth.

On October 18, 1973, the famous
Mansfield, Ohio UFO sighting
occurred, for which Captain Lawrence
Coyne and his helicopter crew later
were to receive the ‘Best UFO Case of
the Year’’ award (and check) from a
weekly tabloid’s ‘blue-ribbon panel’ of
UFO experts. A few months later,
Coyne said he was told by the panel
chairman, J. Allen Hynek, (the
respected head of the Center for UFO
Studies) that Skylab astronauts had
photographed the same UFO from
space. (Hynek ultimately denied this.)
A reputable magazine, “Army
Reserve” published the story with an
intriguing photograph it had received
from NASA and which it labeled
“NASA: Skylab”, clearly indicating
that this was the astronaut photograph
which had buzzed Coyne.

It would have been a neat trick for
the Skylab astronauts to have photo-
graphed anything on October 18th,
since they weren't even on board the
space station. The previous crew had
returned to Earth a month before and
their relief crew was not scheduled to
blast off for another three weeks. The
photograph printed in the magazine
was clearly labeled on its backside as
taken by Scott Carpenter on Mercury:

ejected from his spacecraft. in an
attempl to get visual tracking practice
(this photo is often referred to as the
“classical doined UFO" shot). UFO
researchers and magazine editors had
clearly not made even a minimum of
effort to verify these transparent
errors and mistakes, but instead passed
on the false data to the public.
Thousands more were deceived.

Late in 1973, a strange obiect did
appear in Skylab space photographs.
Taken on Conrad's Skylab flight in
June, the object was not noticed by
UFO researchers but by government
photo analysts. plete 33

Rather than “sweep the UFO under
the rug’’, the officials took the other
tack: it might be a mysterious Soviet
Satellite and could be of great value to

renaee

FAY,

Pe NE EY Om AE NEE erm TE MF en Seen ©

any

ty
a

ee ee ico oe ee oe oe

ae “i

2

SOLE Tea” SSA oS PP rT nee a ee a eee meee

“UFO” seen from Skylab-2. The elongated object is actually an airstrip

in the Brazihan jungles. Enlargement of NASA photo SL2-16-109,

7 more than ten years befure. [I epde .
showed a limp balloon Carpenter had a4 ages!

58

sensational enongh for fictional “fact”
writer Frank Edvard: he had two
hundred people actually see the
object).

The source of the story seems to
have been an NBC newsman in
Australia. But the probiem seeims to be
that Cooper has never heard of it. He
has been out of the space program for
seven years, and talks freely about
UlOs to reporters, to the Columbia
“UFO recording”., to Mike Douglas,
to friends and associates. Somehow he
knows nothing about “his” space
UFO-—and he has no reason to be
silent. His space UFO never existed.

Confronted by this evidence,
Fawcett (letter of May 10, 1976)
insists that “I sincerely believe some of
the astronaut sightings are bonafide,
based on some of my sources of
information.” John Keel, too, recalls
(letter of March 26, 1976) that “‘ex-
NASA engineers have told me all kinds
of fascinating UFO tales...” Always
these writers fall back on “secret
reports” and “private information”
when their published reports and open
articles disintegrate in the face of the
truth.

On October 18, 1973, the famous
Mansfield, Ohio UFO _ sighting
occurred, for which Captain Lawrence
Coyne and his helicopter crew later
were to receive the ‘Best UFO Case of
the Year” award (and check) from a
weekly tabloid’s ‘blue-ribbon panel’ of
UFO experts. A few months later,
Coyne said he was told by the panel
chairman, J. Allen Hynek, (the
respected head of the Center for UFO
Studies) that Skylab astronauts had
photographed the same UFO from
space. (Hynek ultimately denied this.)
A reputable magazine, ‘Army
Reserve”’ published the story with an
intriguing photograph it had received
from NASA and which it labeled
“NASA: Skylab”, clearly indicating
that this was the astronaut photograph
which had buzzed Coyne.

It would have been a neat trick for
the Skylab astronauts to have photo-
graphed anything on October 18th,
since they weren't even on board the
space station. The previous crew had
returned to Earth a month before and
their relief crew was not scheduled to
blast off for another three weeks. The
photograph printed in the magazine
was clearly labeled on its backside as
taken by Scott Carpenter on Mercury:
7 more than ten years before. [t
showed a limp balloon Carpenter had

gjected from

“classical doined UFO" shot).

effort to verify these
on the false data

Thousands more were deceived.

his spacecraft) in an
attempt to get visual tracking practice
(this photo is often referred to as the
UFO
researchers and magazine editors had
clearly not made even a minimum of
transparent
errors and mistakes, but instead passed
to the public.

Late in 1973, a strange obieet did
appear in Skylab space photographs.
Taken on Conrad's Skylab flight in
June, the object was not noticed by
UFO researchers but by government
photo analysts. plete 33

Rather than “sweep the UFO under
the rug”, the officials took the other
tack: it might be a mysterious Soviet
Satellite and could be of great value to

a a a eae Me a a OT al at il oa Ith a hat IN a A ba RT pn OS

x ‘34 Aa
; ve 28 ma
e* po °
; of og
i Dore
r s h.
Pa > a
i
Hi :
i
4 3 : $ psy
z - a
i ois oy,
Pa 7’
é
a IE NE eT Ro eee a —
Role
“UFO” seen from Skylab-2. Tne elongated object is actually an airstrip
in the Brazilian jungles. Enlargement of NASA photo SL2-16-109,
epiate

aA a gee !
58

Se mee me Am ee a ee i Oe red eee

military intelligence. A prompt and
energetic investigation was launched.

The object looked like a long
cylinder with two square paddles
resembling solar panels at each end.
By measucing its aiigular size on the
negative, analysts were able, to
determine that it was about 20 feet
long a mile away or 2000 feet long a
hundred miles away.

A careful investigation revealed the
surprising answer. the UFO was
actually thousands of feet in length,
but its altitude was zero! It was an
airstrip in the Brazilian jungles!
Further checking showed that the
objected appeared at the same spot in
Skylab photos taken months later; the
airfield «vas also found on an inter-
national aviation chart.

Recent UFO books and articles
have resurrected the X-15 rocket plane
sightings of fifteen years ago. This has
prompted the NASA Headquarters
Public Affairs Office to reissue a
photograph taken by a belly camera of
the spacecraft at an altitude of about
60 miles (photo 76-H-139). plat: 3+

Published reports speak of “‘fleets
of UFOs” at a range of 30 feet from
the X-15. But even a casual reader
with any familiarity with spacecraft
systems will recognize the effect for
what it was: “fireflies”. This is a
phenomenon seen by many Mercury,
Vostok, and later spacemen, as flecks
of paint chipped off the spacecraft. On
the X-15, it was flecks of ice clinging
to the liquid oxygen tanks. The pilot
clearly describes the pieces as being
close-in, small, tumbling, and drifting
along with his vehicle through the
vacuum. :

Considering these cases as I have
described them (and there are other
lesser ones which I have also investi-
gated to a successful conclusion),
what can we now say about authors
who present such evidence of
“astronaut UFOs’? While speaking
ominously about a NASA coverup and
of secret agencies which muzzle space-
men, these same researchers list such
quotations as:

John Young: “Odds are UFOs

Edgar Mitchell: “We all know UFOs
are real’.

Eugene Cernan: “I believe UFOs
belong to someone else and that they
are from some other civilization”.

Gordon Cooper: “I believe that
UFOs, under intelligent control, have

WL IMES EE Rp eRe arty

eevee ten ee ne <0 On tet EN ON SF) gamers + See nen enS se 8 8) MNES prep se

Flake of ice floating off of the X-15 rocket plane. Some investigators

call this a “large UFO”. NASA photo 76-H-139.

59

eS LS —

fs gx cs ‘joe = r PAE aa, ag ee om neat 5 ax boas o>.

Pa I Pe

35

Clouds of debris surround the Saturn booster rocket following Apollo separation. Blow-up photos of individual
pieces of debris inside and outside the cabin have been called “UFOs”. NASA photo AS17-148-22687.

visited our planet for thousands of
years”.

None of these men claim to have
seen UFOs in space. By now it should
be obvious to open-minded investiga-
tors that no other astronaut claims to
have seen any either. Suggestions that
they have really done so are either
misconceptions, misrepresentations, or
frauds on the part of UFO writers.

Yet another case in point has just
been given, and it deals with the John

Young quotation. Young, in Seattle in
1973, said that the chances were good
that there were intelligent civilizations
on other planets (AP, Nov. 27, 1973).
The newsman started the article with
the lead, “John Young says that the
odds are that Unidentified Flying
Objects do exist’, even though none
of Young's quoted words indicated
that at all. Before you could say
“UFO flap”, the UFO writers had a
new authority:

60

obittmdose

John Young says, “Odds are UFOs

It seems clear that astronauts as a
class of the population do not possess
any special knowledge about UFOs
which they may have gained from
their own experiences. They are about
as well informed (or more truthfully,
as badly misinformed) as the average
citizen. To quote them as above with
the suggestion that they are special
authorities on UFOs is a misleading

and intellectually dishonest tactic.
Three time space veteran Wally Schirra,
who according to UFOlogists saw
“glowing masses” (actually lightning-lit
clouds, over the Indian Ocean) has
written, “I do not know enough about
this subject to render an opinion of
any kind. The only information I[ have
is that which has been released to the
public through the years by the
various news media”. UFO writers
would have us believe that this is part
of a vast conspiracy of lies which only
they can penetrate. Accild t

The actual answer to the “shapeless
light” mystery illustrates the way
NASA faces real space mysteries. The
crew was puzzled by the sighting but

_ Teported it to space officials who made

no effort to conceal the incident. If
NASA were trying to cover up actual
UFO sightings by astronauts, this was
a good candidate for one—and it
would never have been publicized.

Astronaut Dick Gordon revealed to
me the unpublicized solution to the
publicized mystery. In a letter dated

Septemher 15, 1976, Gordon wrote:
“L vividly recall the incident which
ocetrred when a light of indistinct
shape and size was spolted on our
return to earth... (it) did appear to be
in the Indian Ocvan. [n our discussions
and debriefings that occurred later.
Rusty Schweikart provided the
answer. He simply said, ‘how about
the moon's reflection?’ and, of course,
that is what it was. .. How often those
of us in aviation have seen the moon’s
reflection on the water in the course
of a normal flight. We simply did not
put it together in returning from lunar
distance, where we had the black back-
ground of space, the dark night of the
earth, and the moon behind us.”

Other spacemen have been asked to
answer these questions). They have
been forthright in their denials: “I
never have personally seen anything I
could identify as a UFO”, says John
Glenn, now a Senator from Ohio.
Astronauts Grissom and Young said,
“We have never seen any UFOs”.
Richard Gordon, who was with

A common source of space and other UFOs
is shown here. The aura and the lens-shaped
disc is actually a sunrise photographed from
. Skyleb. NASA photo SL3-118-2177.

Conrad on Gemini-11 and Apollo-12,
writes that “I never saw a UFO".
Astronaut “Deke” Slayton claims that
“f don't recollect anyone reporting
any UFOs on any of our flights”.

“Buzz" Aldrin went to the moon
on Apollo-11, on which the UFO
press lists at least three separate EFO
incldents. There were no UFOs;
“There are people who say there’s a
government conspiracy to cover up the

“existence of flying saucers.” Aldrin

told a Reuters reporter in 1973,
“That's a lot of hogwash.”

The LM pilot on the next flight,
Apollo-12, was Alan Bean. Following a
new press conference in 1975 when
James Harder repeated his stories of
Apollo-11 and Apollo-12 UFOs, Bean
told UPI that at no time during his
mission did he ever see an unidentified
object. “At no time did we see
anything which was not of our
spacecraft, either during lunar orbit or
during the voyage to and from the
moon,” Bean stated.

The AGRO Uull-tin (Reb. L976)
continued to generate new astronaut
UFO fairy tales with the anonymous
revelation from “Mr. XX", who heard
the Apollo-Ll astronauts describe
“three dise chaped shadows that were
pacing them across the surface of the
moon.” The best answer to this
fabrication is in a Ictter from NASA
Assistent Administrator for Legislative

Affairs Robert F.  Allnutt, to
Congressinan Bob Casey, dated
January 29, 1970: ‘‘Conversation
between the Apollo 11 crew and

Mission’ Control were released live
during the entire Apollo 11 mission.
There were between 1000 and 1500
representatives of the news media
present at the Houston News Center
listening and observing, but not one
has suggested that NASA withheld any
news or conversations of this nature.”

The evidence is clear. There is, out
of all the dozens of “reports of
astronaut UFO sightings”, no residue
of authentic cases, no 20% or 5% or
even 0.01% of “true UFOs” behind all
the “noise”. My research is compelling
in its conclusion: after fifteen years of
manned space voyages including space
stations and landing on the moon,
spacemen have brought back not a
shred of evidence—verbal, photo-
graphic, or otherwise—for the
existence of extraterrestrial spacecraft,
or “UFOs”.

That evidence, if it exists at all,
must be sought elsewhere. The
performance and standards of conduct
of the UFO groups and of UFO writers
cannot be cause for optimism that
such evidence, if it exists, will be
recognized and correctly evaluated.
The lesson of the ‘astronaut UFOs”,
then, teaches us nothing about UFOs,
but a lot about UFO investigators.

Scientific Study of Unidentified

Flying Objects (Condon Report),
Bantam Edition, 1969, Chapter 6:
Visual Observations Made by

Astronauts/Franklin E. Roach. Pages
176-209, with bibliography through
1967. Good background material
including unpublished valid solutions
to a number of cases. Incorrect
solution to Gemini- XL case.
Inadequate analysis and unjustified
endorsement of Geniini-lY ease.

The Edge of Reality, by Hynek and
Vallee. Henry Regnery & Co., 1975.
Paze 63-6-4 in a seetion called “The

Setentists at Work”, we fiad the phony
Faweett list. List has incorrect dates
and many Oights oul of sequence. On
July 1, 1976. Dr. J. Allen) Elynuek
reviewed my evidence and endorsed it,
and reoudiated the Faweett list. which
he veported that he included in his
book as a curiosity only. That is, just
because he presented it as fact to
thousands of readers ‘vas no reason for
anyone to conclude he thought it was
true. This appallingly irresponsible
attitude towards rules of evidence
seems to infect the whole UFO field.

Sightings by 26 Astronauts
Conyirm: UFOs Spied on Skylads (sic)
Many Other Space Shots—UFOs Watch
Every Move NASA Makes, Say
Astronauts Who Were Tailed on Space
Shot, “National Tattler’, March 17,
1974. This is an embellished version of
the same Fawcett fantasies. Weekly
tabloid newspaper “conformed to the
highest standards of modern reporting.
Tattler and its staff are dedicated to
total, truthful coverage...” In fact,
staffer Robert Abborino made no
effort to check any of Fawcett’s
outrageous claims.

UFOs Past, Present and Future, by
Robert Emenegger, research by Alan

_ Sandler. Ballantine, 1974. Chapter 15,

‘“‘Nasa”’, pages 100-106. Extensive
transcripts of space communications
cover up the fact that Sandler
carefuily selected evidence and must
have knowingly omitted information
which would have explained. many
cases. An excellent photo section is
included.

UFO Report, People Press, 1975.
“NASA Hiding UFOs From You”, by
Robert D. Barry, pages 4-10. Barry is
associated with Carl Mcintyre’s
fundamentalist Christian group, and is
one of the wilder UFO writers. Even
the mass media has learned to
disregard his fictional descriptions of
non-events. Here, he explains “‘why
NASA called in the CIA to keep these
photos secret”, without explaining
how, in that case, he got copies. He
uses the forged Gemini-7 photo
proudly.

Flying Saucers—Here and Now!, by
Frank Edwards, Lyle Stuart, New
York, 1967. Astronaut fantasies
wholly or in part created in the fertile
(and unlimited by reality) mind of
‘newsman’ Frank Edwards are found
on pages 13. 180, and 197. Through
such entries a journalism student can
trace the actual growth of the myth.

APRO Bulletin, March-April 1970

62

and February 1976 and others. ‘This

flying saucer club newsletter best
t.pifics the disregard for impartial
investigation of evidence = whieh
provided the climate in which the
myth of “astronaut UFOs” could grow
and flourish.

The Star, March 2, 1976. page 7.
Sequence of headlines: On the front
page, “Astronauts Say: We Saw UFOs
in Space”. On page 7, “Top
Astronauts Confirm: We spotted uvo
UFOs”. In the article, McDivitt talks
of his UFO, and Cooper discusses his
experiences as a fighter pilot in
Germany—and makes no mention of
the space UFO associated with his
name. The headlines, as can be
expected in such a newspaper, are
deliberately misleading.

SAGA magazine, May 1970:
Classified TOP SECRET—Apollo
Astronauts Reported Two UFO
Sightings, by Beckley and Salkin, p. 13
ff. Complete story of Apollo-12 UFOs.

plus enough false information to
“discredit” the true explanation.
Quotes “space expert Gary

Henderson”, another active spreader
of the myth. Refers to long-discredited
stories of “‘secret dead Russian
cosmonauts” probably created by
Frank Edwards.

Houston Post, Nov. 30, 1975, page
1D: “Just One Astronaut Claims
Seeing UFO”, by Jim Maloney. This
sensible and sane __ investigation
(McDivitt stuck to his story) clearly
did not excite the national news media
and was relegated to the obscurity of a
local newspaper.

Science and Mechanics, June 1969.
Cover Story: “This UFO was
photographed by astronaut Gordon on
Gemini 11 flight” (the cover photo
shows a tremendously enlarged out of
focus image of a piece of insulation
floating a few inches in front of the
camera). Page +4, Lloyd Mallan: “Are
UFO Space Crews Spying on our
Astronauts?” Description of the late
L. Mallan’s interviews on Gemini-&2.
provides some new information but
cements some old misconceptions.
Also embellishes Condon Report
“unknowns”.

Lockheed-NASA Contract. NAS
9-5191 (March 1970), “Technical
Report: Unidentified Visual
Phenomena Associated with Space
Flight", F. Beatty and J. Baron.
Discusses the fragments seen and
photographed on  Apollo-L2, and
traces them to spacecraft effects.

a
Repiy To:

135 Hart Senate OFFice BulLoING
WasHineoton, DC 20510-1501

(202) 224-3744

TTY: (202) 224-4479
e-mail:chuck__grassley@grassley.senate.gov

Wnited States Senate

CHARLES E. GRASSLEY
WASHINGTON, DC 20510-1501

72) Fepera BupinG

210 Watnur Stace

Des Moines, IA 50309-2140
(515) 284-4990

206 FEDERAL BUILDING

101 1st Street SE.

Ceoar Rapins, 1A 52401-1227
(319) 363-6832

August 3, 1998

Ms. Mary D. Kerwin

Deputy Assoc. For Legislative Affairs
National Aeronautics & Space Administration
300 E Street, S.W. :

Two Independence Square, Room 9133
Washington, DC 20546

Dear Ms. Kerwin:

Enclosed please find a communication from ()(@)
regarding several concerns about the space program.

Repcy To:

103 Fepenat CounTHouse BuiLoinG

320 6TH STREET
Sioux Ciry, 1A 51101-1244
(712) 233-1860

210 WATERLOO BUILDING
531 COMMERCIAL STREET
WaTERLoo, IA 50701-5497
(319) 232-6657

116 FEDERAL BUILDING

131 E. 41H STREET
Davenpont, IA 52801-1513
(319) 322-4331

307 FEDERAL BUILDING

8 SouTH 6TH STREET

Counc: Biurrs, IA 51501-4204
(712) 322-7103

I would appreciate any assistance you could provide pertaining to
this matter. Please mark your return correspondence to the

attention of Sherry Kuntz when responding to my office.

Thank you for your attention to my request.

incerely,

Charles E. Grassley

United States Senator

CEG/sk
Enclosure

Committee Assignments:

FINANCE
JUDICIARY

AGRICULTURE CHAIRMAN,
BUDGET SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING

PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER.

Ds ee - —

s

Author: (b) (6) <(b) (6) > at internet
Date: 7/6/98 04:14 PM

Priority: Normal

TO: chuck grassley at Grassley-DC

Subject: Message from a Voter

Greetings Honorable Senator Grassley,

I have recently encountered a number of new and interesting
tidbits of information concerning letters T have previously written to
you in regard of the UFO phenomenon that seems to be happening in the
United States as well as the rest of the world. I greatly appreciate
all the information you have led me to through our past correspondence.
I am hoping you can help me track down a few more specific things.

Here is a something I heard from someone I was corresponding with:

"On Sunday, August 10, 1997 at around 9:45am CDT, I was watching
TV and switched to the NASA channel for news of the ongoing shuttle
mission. At the time, they were broadcasting a nighttime view of Earth.
As I watched, I was surprised to see a light rising vertically from the
bottom of the screen where Earth was displayed. As it continued to rise
vertically (relative to the TV screen), the shuttle camera clearly began
to track the light and kept the picture centered on it.

"After it rose well above the horizon of Earth, the light made
an apparent 90-degree turn to the right (again relative to the screen)
and continued off in that direction. The shuttle camera continued to
track the object and began to zoom in for a closer look. At that point
NASA cut off the feed from the external camera and displayed the Houston
space center instead. Unfortunately, I wasn't prepared to record this on
my VCR. The entire episode lasted less than a minute, so I was unable to
get the VCR ready in time."

I am also interested in any information that can be relayed
about the Groom Lake Area, also know as Area 51, or Dreamland, and an
area known as Area S-4. The media has stated that these areas in the
Nevada desert are testing grounds for US "Black Projects". I believe
that vehicles such as the SR-71 Blackbird, and the F-117 Stealth Fighter
where tested here.

The government to date denies the existence of such places, even
though [ have in my possession of several videotapes, pictures, and even
a Russian satellite image showing the area. Does such a place exist?
Or at least, are you, the Air Force, or NASA, whoever happens to be in
control of the site willing to tell us that is does exist. It is my
understanding that the Nellis Air Force Base surrounds Area 51, so I
imagine that the Air force is the one who has jurisdiction over the
Area.

Many people including Bob Lazar, Bill Uhouse, and the father of
a guy I work with all claim to have worked in this secret area, and have
seen and worked on craft of an alien origin.

Bill Uhouse claims that both President Nixon, and Bush visited
the Area 51 facility to examine the progress of recreating alien
technology. He also claims that the project was going on with the aid
of an alien "gray" known as Jarod (JAY-rod).

If there is any truth to their claims and the claims of many
others, I would wonder why such a spectacular secret would be kept from
us, and why the aliens would not have made themselves known to the
general populace of Earth.

Please do not just send me another list of Project Blue Book
documents, and I have already seen the censored files released by the
CIA. These documents have been censored so all that they do is bring
more suspicion toward the government, and they just make me think even
more that someone is hiding something. The thing I can't figure out is
why .

» * Anything you can do to help in my search for the hidden truth is
greatly appreciated. Please help me find out if we do have aliens at
Area 51, or even an admission that Area 51 exists.

Thanks Much.

Here is a list of Organizations, and places which may be helpful in

helping track down some information: ;

Organizations - Military groups and civilian contractors.

* Nellis Air Force Base - Controls the land surrounding Area 51.
* Nevada Test Site - Borders base on the west. Initially "owned"
Area 51.

* Security Anonymous "Cammo Dudes" patrolling base perimeter.

* "Janet" Aircraft - Official EG&G “airline" ferrying workers to
Groom Lake

* Air Force Flight Test Center - Agency that controls Area 51.
Based at Edwards Air Force Base.
sl EG&G Special Projects - General contractor at Area 51.

* Bechtel - General contractor at Nevada Test Site, with some
projects at Area 51.

* Tonopah Test Range - "Semi-secret" aircraft testing base
northwest of Area 51

* Lockheed-Martin - Aircraft manufacturer for whom the base was
built.

* Johnson Controls - Contractor at Nevada Test Site, possibly also
at Area 51.

* Wackenhut Security - Security contractor at Nevada Test Site
Places

* Rachel, Nevada - Nevada's "UFO Capital", the closest town to
Area 51 “

* Basecamp Airfield - "Secret" airfield in plain sight

* Green River Launch Complex, Utah- According to "Popular
Mechanics" the site of the "new Area 51"

* Papoose Lake - Site of Lazar's "Area S-4" south of Groom Lake

* Tikaboo Peak - Last accessible viewpoint into Area 51

Author: (6) (6) <(b) (6) > at internet
Date: 7/6/98 04:48 PM

Priority: Normal

TO: chuck grassley at Grassley-DC

Subject: NASA

This is a continuation of an e-mail I just sent you. These are some
alleged conversations and observations made from NASA Astronauts. If
there is ANY truth to this, there is a big shame shame, on NASA. If you
could contact NASA on my behalf about these incidences I would be very
grateful.

Major Gordon Cooper

One of the original Mercury Astronauts and the last American to fly in
space alone. On May 15, 1963 he shot into space in a Mercury capsule for
a 22 orbit journey around the world. During the final orbit, Major
Gordon Cooper told the tracking station at Much (near Perth Australia)
that he could see a glowing, greenish object ahead of him quickly
approaching his capsule. The UFO was real and solid, because it was
picked up by Muchea's tracking radar.

Cooper's sighting was reported by the National Broadcast Company, which
was covering the flight step by step; but when Cooper landed, reporters
were told that they would not be allowed to question him about the UFO
sighting.

Major Cooper was a firm believer in UFOs. Ten years earlier, in 1951 he
had sighted a UFO while piloting an F-86 Sabrejet over Western Germany.
They were metallic, Ssaucer-shaped discs at considerable altitude and
could out-maneuver all American fighter planes.

Major Cooper also testified hefore the United Nations:

"I believe that these extra-terrestrial vehicles and their crews are
visiting this planet from other planets... Most astronauts were
reluctant to discuss UFOs."

"I did have occasion in 1951 to have two days of observation of many
flights of them, of different sizes, flying in fighter formation,
generally from east to west over Europe."

And according to a taped interview by J. L. Ferrando, Major Cooper said:

"For many years I have lived with a secret, in a secrecy imposed on all
specialists in astronautics. I can now reveal that every day, in the
USA, Our radar instruments capture objects of form and composition
unknown to us. And there are thousands of witness reports and a quantity
of documents to prove this, but nobody wants to make them public.

Why? Because authority is afraid that people may think of God knows what
kind of horrible invaders. So the password still is: We have to avoid
panic by all means."

"I was furthermore a witness to an extraordinary phenomenon, here on
this planet Earth. It happened a few months ago in Florida. There I saw
with my own eyes a defined area of ground being consumed by flames, with
four indentions left by a flying object which had descended in the
middle of a field. Beings had left the craft (there were other traces to
prove this). They seemed to have studied topography, they had collected
soil samples and, eventually, they returned to where they had come from,
disappearing at enormous speed...I happen to know that authority did
just about everything to keep this incident from the press and TV, in
fear of a panicky reaction from the public."

Ed White & James McDivitt

In June 1965, astronauts Ed White (first American to walk in space) and
James McDivitt were passing over Hawaii in a Gemini spacecraft when they
saw a weird-looking metallic object. The UFO had long arms sticking out
of it. McDivitt took pictures with a cine-camera. Those pictures have
never been released.

James Lovell and Frank Borman

In December 1965, Gemini astronauts James Lovell and Frank Borman also
saw a UFO during their second orbit of their record-breaking 14 day
flight. Borman reported that he saw an unidentified spacecraft .some
distance from their capsule. Gemini Control, at Cape Kennedy told him
that he was seeing the final stage of their own Titan booster rocket. ‘‘
Borman confirmed that he could see the booster rocket all right, but

that he could also see something completely different.

During James Lovell's flight on Gemini 7:
Borman: ER GEMINI 7, HOUSTON HOW DO YOU READ?
Control: Loud and clear 7 go ahead.

Borman: GOT A BOGEY AT 10 O'CLOCK HIGH.

Control: This is Houston. Say again 7.
Borman: SAID WE HAVE A BOGEY AT 10 O'CLOCK HIGH.
Control: Roger

Control: Gemini 7, is that the booster or is that an actual sighting?
Borman: WE HAVE SEVERAL...ACTUAL SIGHTINGS.

Control: ..-Estimated distance or size?

Borman: WE ALSO HAVE THE BOOSTER IN SIGHT...

Further controller cuts in: Gemini control here again, the reference in
that conversation was er bogey. It was er Borman who reported sighting
the bogey. Er this is Gemini control Houston at er 4 hours 24 minutes
into the flight.

Ironically, it was Lovell who made the classic statement "Please be
informed that there is a Santa Claus". This was during his Apollo 8
flight on Christmas day in 1968 - some people believe there's a deeper
meaning to these words, although the sceptics believe that this was
little more than American humour. However, Walter Schitta, who was
aboard Mercury 8, reputedly used Santa Clause as a code~-name for a UFO
presence, adding some weight to the argument that Lovell was
experiencing another sighting.

Neil Armstrong & Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin

According to the NASA Astronaut Neil Armstrong the Aliens have a base on
the Moon and told us in no uncertain terms to get off and stay off the
Moon.

According to hitherto un-confirmed reports, both Neil Armstrong and
Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin saw UFOs shortly after that historic landing on the
Moon in Apollo 11 on 21 July 1969. I remember hearing one of the
astronauts refer to a "light" in or on a crater during the television
transmission, followed by a request from mission control for further
information. Nothing more was heard.

According to a former NASA employee Otto Binder, unnamed radio hams with
- their own VHP receiving facilities that bypassed NASA's broadcasting
outlets picked up the following exchange:

NASA: What's there?

Mission Control calling Apollo 11.

Apollo 11: These "Babies" are huge, Sir! Enormous!
OH MY GOD! You wouldn't believe it!
I'm telling you there are other spacecraft out there,. :
Lined up on the far side of the crater edge! a
They're on the Moon watching us!

The two astronauts, talking to the NASA base in Houston.
Text of the conversation:
Astronaut 1: Ha! What is it?
Astronaut 2: We have some explanation for that?
Houston: We have (not), don't worry, continue your program!
Astronaut 1: Oh boy it's a, it's, it, it is really something (similar
fantastic here, you, you could never imagine this!
Houston: Roger, we know about that, could you go the other way, go back
the other way!

Astronaut 1: Well it's kind of (rigged) ha, pretty spectacular ......
god ... what is that there? «

Astronaut 1: It's (hollow), what the hell is that?

Houston: Go Tango, Tango!

Astronaut 1: Ha! There's kind of light there now!

Houston: Roger, we got it, we (watched it), lose communication,
Bravo Tango, Bravo Tango, select Jezebel, Jezebel!

Astronaut 1: o...2. ya; hal 2.2: x but this is unbelievable!

Houston: (we call you up Bravo Tango, Bravo Tango) !

A certain professor, who wished to remain anonymous, was engaged in a

discussion with Neil Armstrong during a NASA symposium.

Professor: What REALLY happened out there with Apollo 11?

Armstrong: It was incredible, of course we had always known

there was a possibility, the fact is, we were

warned off! (by the Aliens). There was never any

question then of a space station or a moon city.

Professor: How do you mean "warned off"?

Armstrong: I can't go into details, except to say that their
ships were far superior to ours both in ‘size and
technology - Boy, were they big!...and menacing!

No, there is no question of a space station.
Professor: But NASA had other missions after Apollo 11?

Armstrong: Naturally - NASA was committed at that time, and
couldn't risk panic on Earth. But it really was a

quick scoop and back again.
According to a Dr. Vladimir Azhazha:
"Neil Armstrong relayed the message to Mission Control that two large,
mysterious objects were watching them after having landed near the moon
module. But this message was never heard by the public -- because NASA
censored it."
According to a Dr. Aleksandr Kasantsev, Buzz Aldrin took color movie
film of the UFOs from inside the module, and continued filming them
after he and Armstrong went outside.
Armstrong confirmed that the story was true but refused to go into
further detail, beyond admitting that the.CIA was behind the cover-up.

Donald Slayton

Donald Slayton a Mercury astronaut revealed in an interview he had seen
UFOs in 1951:

“I was testing a P-51 fighter in Minneapolis when I spotted this object.
I was at about 10,000 feet on a nice, bright, sunny afternoon. I thought
the object was a kite, then I realized that no kite is gonna fly that

As I got closer it looked like a weather balloon, gray and about three
feet in diameter. But as soon as I got behind the darn thing it didn't
look like a balloon anymore. It looked like a saucer, a disk.

About the same time, I realized that it was suddenly going away from me
-- and there I was, running at about 300 miles per hour. I tracked it
for a little way, and then all of a sudden the damn thing just took off.
It pulled about a 45 degree climbing turn and accelerated and just flat
disappeared."

Major Robert White

On July 17, 1962 Major Robert White reported a UFO during his
fifty-eight-mile high flight of an X-15. Major White reported:

"I have no idea what it could be. It was grayish in color and about
thirty to forty feet away." Then according to a Time Magazine article,
Major White exclaimed over the radio:

"There ARE things out there! There absolutely is!"

NASA Pilot Joseph A. Walker

On May 11, 1962 NASA pilot Joseph Walker said that one of his tasks was
to detect UFOs during his X-15 flights. He had filmed five or six UFOs
during his record breaking fifty-mile-high flight in April, 1962. It was
the second time he had filmed UFOs in flight. During a lecture at the
Second National Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Space Research in
Seattle, Washington he said:..

"I don't feel like speculating about them. All’I know is what appeared
on the film which was developed after the flight." - Joseph Walker

To date none of those films has been released to the public for viewing.

Commander Eugene Cernan

Eugene Cernan was commander of Apollo 17. In a Los Angeles Times article
in 1973 he said, about UFOs:

"...I've been asked (about UFOs) and I've said publicly I thought they
(UFOs) were somebody else, some other civilization."

NASA's Maurice Chatelain

In 1979 Maurice Chatelain, former chief of NASA Communications Systems
confirmed that Armstrong had indeed reported seeing two UFOs on the rim
of a crater. Chatelain believes that some UFOs may come from our own
solar system -- specifically Titan.

"The encounter was common knowledge in NASA, but nobody has talked about
it until now."

"...all Apollo and Gemini flights were followed, both at a distance and
sometimes also quite closely, by space vehicles of extraterrestrial
origin - flying saucers, or UFOs, if you want to call them by that name.
Every time it occurred, the astronauts informed Mission Control, who
then ordered absolute silence."

Pilot Walter Schirra

"I think that Walter Schirra aboard Mercury 8 was the first of the
astronauts to use the code name 'Santa Claus' to indicate the presence
of flying saucers next to space capsules. However, his announcements
were barely noticed by the general public.

James Lovell

It was a little different when James Lovell on board the Apollo 8
command module came out from behind the moon and said for everybody to
hear: 'PLEASE BE INFORMED THAT THERE IS A SANTA CLAUS.' Even though this
happened on Christmas Day 1968, many people sensed a hidden meaning in
those words."

The rumors persist. NASA may well be a civilian agency, but many of its
programs are funded by the

defense budget and most of the astronauts are subject to military
security regulations. Apart from the fact that the National Security
Agency screens all films and probably radio communications as well.We
have the statements by Otto Binder, Dr. Garry Henderson and Maurice
Chatelain that the astronauts were under strict orders not to discuss
their sightings. And Gordon Cooper has testified to a United Nations
committee that one of the astronauts actually witnessed a UFO on the
ground. If there is no secrecy, why has this sighting not been made
public?

Shuttle Discovery - Mission 20

The voices of the astronaut and of the amateur radio station WA3NAN

Goddard in the Space Center of Greenbelt Maryland.

WA3NAN: We are retransmitting the Space Shuttle airground communication
from mission 20. This is WA3NAN.

Astronaut James F. Buchli...

Astronaut: Houston, this is Discovery, we still have the alien

spacecraft
under observance...

L:ATW:mtg:L/1998-407f

The Honorable Olympia J. Snowe
United States Senate
Washington, DC 20510

Dear Senator Snowe:

Thank you for your May 18, 1998, letter on behalf of (©) (6) regarding
Unidentified Flying Objects and his concern over the "authenticity of the recently
released Mariner photographs."

There are no recently released Mariner photographs. We assume (©) (6) : is
referring to the images taken from our Mars Global Surveyor (MGS). NASA does not
tamper with images received from MGS. These images are received on Earth in digital
format, meaning "0 and 1". NASA merely translates these digital images, using
computer processing, into actual images. All images and other instrument data is
deposited in a publicly accessible archive within six months after receipt where they are
available to everyone. All the images currently released can be found on the Internet at
http://photojournal.jpl.nasa.gov.

We appreciate your interest in these matters, and trust this information will be helpful to
you in responding to(®) (6)

Sincerely,
od by
. weninger
Edward Heffernan

(Acting) Associate Administrator
for Legislative Affairs

ecc:
S/Ruth Netting
LB/Barbara Cherry

Sent to Mark Berumen @ Hill Office (250 SROB)

(la2Kigaer 5,
fy ye

® OLYMPIA J. SNOWE

Masoairy Leaper

COMMITTEES:
MAINE ARMED SERVICES
COUNSEL TO THE ASSISTANT BUDGET

COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND

250 Russet SENATE OFFICE BUILDING = i
TRANSPORTATION
ion Sa Wnited States Senate ron

WASHINGTON, DC 20510-1903 ig tl alas

SMALL BUSINESS

May 18, 1998

Mr. Lawrence E. Medway

Director, Congressional Inquiries Division
National Aeronautic and Space Administration
300 EK. Street... SW

Washington, D.C. 20546

Dear Mr. Medway:

I am writing to you regarding the concerns of my constituent, (b) (6)

(b) (6) , o£ Stonington, Maine.
(b) (6) is interested in U.F.O.’s and the recent photos of
Mars which were recently released. (6)(6) is not

convinced with the authenticity of the recently released Mariner

photographs. Further, he questions the authenticity based on the
picture only having 75 shades of grey, rather than the 256 it is

supposed to have. Any information you could provide which would

help me address his concerns would be appreciated.

Thank you for your time and attention.

: OW
States Senator

OUS:mjb
AUBURN AUGUSTA BANGOR BioDEFORD PORTLAND PRESQUE ISLE
Two Great Faus Plaza 68 Sewact Street, Surre 101C One CUMBERLAND Puace, Surre 306 231 MAIN STREET, SUITE 2 3 CANAL PLAZA, Suite 601 169 Acabemy STREET, SUITE 3
Surre 7B Aucusta, ME 04330 Bancon, ME 04401 Binperorno, ME 04005 P.O. Box 188 Presoue Iste, ME 04769
Ausuan, ME 04210 (207) 622-8292 (207) 945-0432 (207) 282-4144 PorTLAno, ME 04112 (207) 764-5124
(207) 786-2451 (207) 674-0683

Maine RELAY SEAVICE
TOD 1-955-3323.

IN MAINE CALL TOLL-FREE 1-800-432-1599 PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

L98-407 - Sen. Snowe

Enclosed is a fact sheet entitled "The US Government and Unidentified Flying Objects." As
stated in the second paragraph of the Fact Sheet, Congress, in 1993, directed NASA to end its
search program. Teday-the-seareh-for extraterrestrials is conducted -through The-Search for,
Extraterrestriat intelligence Institute {SETt Institute) in Mountain View, CA.

As for your interest in the recent photos of Mars taken from our Mars Global Surveyor (MGS),
not the Mariner, these images are received on Earth in digital format, meaning “0 and 1”. NASA does
not tamper with these images. However, the images do require computer processing before they are
suitable for public viewing. All images and other instrument data obtained from the MGS will be deposited
in a publicly accessible archive, and they will then be available to everyone, scientists and citizens alike,
who wants to examine them and draw their own individual conclusions. You can access all the images
currently released from the following website: http://photojournal.jp|.nasa.gov/

We appreciate your interest in this matter and trust this information will be useful
to you.

ACTION REQUIRED

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY

Office of Legislative Affairs DATE: May 26, 1998
NASA Headquarters PAGES, if faxed: 3
300 E Street, SW

Washington, DC 20546

S/Ruth Netting |] Anne Ward]
LFAG]———Si«dsCSA | (202) So

a a aera

INSTRUCTIONS:

Please prepare a draft reply to the attached Congressional inquiry and send it
via electronic mail to the following address: Anne.Ward@hq.nasa.gov

or send a copy of your reply on a diskette to the attention of Anne Ward.

If you need clarification of this assignment or additional time to prepare this

reply, please contact Anne Ward.

MESSAGE:
Ruth, If you answer this before June 1, please send answer to me.

Thanks.

Helen

Headquarters Action Tracking System (HATS)
INCOMING GORRESPONDENGE ACTION
ID Number: L/1998-00407

Title: Sen Snowe fwds Itr from ©) ©) , who's interested in U.F.O.
and the recent Mars photo

Recipient: L/Heffernan

Author: SNOWE

Organization: SENATE Date Written: 05/18/1998
Date Received: 05/26/1998
Date Concurred:
Date Submitted:
Date Signed:

Date Closed:

Action Office: LD/Rothman:P >>Current Due Date: 06/18/1998<<

Original Due Date:

Status: Open
Signature Office: L/Heffernan

Info Offices: L/Heffernan, L/Heninger, L/Kerwin

Abstract:
SEN SNOWE FWDS LTR FROM (5) (6) OF STOCKINGTON, MAINE, WHO'S
INTERESTED IN U.FO.'S AND THE RECENT PHOTOS OF MARS WHICH WERE RECENTLY RELEASED.

Comments: \ c bs mm F ) R cH

Mth»

Enclosures: Dei : J

Related Records: i i, ad

Keywords: (6) (6) STONINGTON, MAINE U.F.O. MARS
File Plan: Analyst: BMoore

05/26/1998 Page 1 of 1

2p, DRAFT

L:ATW:mtg:L/1998-407f Pes Vp

aa The Honorable Olympia J. Snowe
United States Senatar \_
Washington, DC 20510

Dear Senator Snowe:

G
L Thank you for your May 18, 1998, letter on behalf of (b) (6) regarding
ee a ~ UFO's and his concern over the "authenticity of the recently released Mariner
we photographs."

aS The atten he ed fa ct shee » The U Governmen ond ey ving g Objec ar eee q
bs

briet-his f NASA tigd  neithe Aor an )
ist Story of NASA's Invest aan ye

branch-o > governmen

There are no recently released Mariner photographs. We assume) (6) is
referring to the images taken from our Mars Global Surveyor (MGS). NASA does not
ts, __ tamper with images received from MGS. These images are received on Earth in digital
eK #) format, meaning "0 and 1". NASA merely translates these digital images, using

E computer processing, into actual images. All images and other instrument data is
deposited in a publicly accessible archive within six months after receipt where they are
available to everyone. All the images currently released can be found on the Internet at
http://photojournal.jp|.nasa.gov.

We appreciate your interest in these matters, and trust this information will be helpful to
you in responding to{®) (6

Sincerely,

Edward Heffernan
(Acting) Associate Administrator
for Legislative Affairs

_Btéloouré

Pe Heretics UFO's

Headquarters Action Tracking System (HATS)
INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE ACTION
ID Number: L/1998-00494

Title: Ward/White House Referral: UFO Hearings
Recipient: A/Goldin

Organization: White House Date Written: 05/17/1998
Date Received: 06/18/1998
Date Concurred:
Date Submitted:
Date Signed: 06/26/1998
Date Closed: 06/26/1998
Action Office: L/Ward:S >>Current Due Date: 07/15/1998<<
Original Due Date: 07/15/1998
Status: Closed

Signature Office: L/Heffernan

Info Offices: L/Heffernan, L/Heninger, L/Kerwin

Abstract:
White House Correspondence from ©) ) who supports having congressional hearing regarding the

existence of UFO's.

Comments:

Note: Vanessa needs letterhead copy of signed/dated response.
Enclosures: White House Memo

Related Records: A/1998-00416

Keywords: (©)(6) | UFO, hearings
File Plan: 1320.4 Analyst: JMassey

06/24/1998 Page 1 of 1

JUN 2

L:ATW:mtg:L/1998-494f

The White House has requested NASA to respond to your May 17, 1998, letter to
President Clinton concerning possible hearings on Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs),

We are not aware of any hearings scheduled on UFO. Enclosed is a Fact Sheet, "The
US Government and Unidentified Flying Objects," which gives a brief history of NASA's

investigations into UFO.

We appreciate your interest in this matter and trust this information will be helpful to
you.

Sincerely,

Edward Heffernan
(Acting) Associate Administrator
for Legislative Affairs

Enclosure

S/Ruth Netting
LB/Barbara Cherry

Sent to Sue J. Smith
Director, Office of Agency Liaison
Room 6, OEOB
The White House
Washington, DC 20502

Gl22l48 au- JD
6 f a3 [Dy/

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

MEMORANDUM FOR: NA SA a

FROM: SUE J. SMITH
DIRECTOR, OFF OF AGENCY LIAISON

SUBJECT: REFERRAL OF CASEWORK IN BULK

An unprecedented number of individuals still write the President and
the First Lady for help. I know that this has meant a far greater
volume of mail for your agency than ever before. I appreciate your
continuing cooperation in our efforts to be as responsive as

possible.

The attached letters have not received a White House Staff response.
I am forwarding this correspondence to your agency for any
appropriate action.

Please return the original incoming letter, along with a copy of any
written or telephone response, to me at the address below. I also
would appreciate your sending a copy of your agency’s log of the
names and addresses of these individuals. Any misreferrals should
be returned to my office, If you have questions you can reach me at

456-7486.

Sue J. Smith
Director, Office of Agency Liaison

Room 6, OEOB
The White House
Washington, D.C. 20502

Again, thank you for your continuing help.

Allee€-004 6! AI8- ON

From nobody@wwwt-whitehouse.gov Sun May 17 17:57:37 1998
Date: Sun, 17 May 1998 17:54:05 -0400

Subject: Inbound-White_House_WWW_MAIL => PRESIDENT
Apparently-to: president@WhiteHouse. GOV

To: president@WhiteHouse.GOV

Errors-to: The Postmaster <postmaster@www1. eee gov>

Message-id: <199805172154.RAA07723@www1 rites: gov>

Keywords: WWW-Correspondence; ; Ask a specific question regarding
Administration policy; Science or Technology; Private Citizen;
Comments: Forwarded from White House WWW

Comments: This message scanned by SCAN version 0.1 jms/960226

[Connection fete)

CLIENT: ww- tr02. proxy.aol.com[152,163.201.136]
BROWSER: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible, MSIE 4.0; AOL 3.0; Windows 95, Sony
URL: http://www. whitehouse. gov/WH/Mai V/html/ Mai 1_ President. html.

[Sender Information]

PERSONAL-NAME:  (b) (6)
EMAIL-ADDRESS:
ORGANIZATION:
RELATIONSHIP:
STREET-ADDRESS;: (6) (6)
CITY: Ventura
STATE-PROVINCE: Ca
ZIP-CODE: 93004
COUNTRY; usa

(Message Information]

PURPOSE: Ask a specific question regarding Administration policy
TOPIC: Science or Technology

AFFILIATION: Private Citizen

SUBJECT: UFO's

[Message]

Dear Mr, President,

It is my understanding that you, Mrs. Clinton, Vice-President
Gore and heads of Congress, including the CIA director,
members of the Senate and House, the Executive Branch and
senior military reps in the Pentagon were briefed in or around
December of 1997 by Dr. Steven Greer, International Director
of CSETI( The Center for the Study of Extraterrestrial
Intelligence). Basically, he calls on you and other members of

congress to hold open congressional meetings. What is your
positon and intent on this matter? Will you push for open
hearings or are you stonewalled as well by MJ-12? Certainly on
your appointment as President you were briefed on the
existence of UFO's. Please use your Executive power to report
and open the truth to the American people. It is time. Your
personal reply is respectfully requested. Thank you.

Sincerely,

Ve

ae
DRAFT Whey,

L:ATW:mtg:L/1998-494f

The White House has requested NASA to respond to your May 17, 1998, letter b J eTiceng, C lod

concerning possible hearings on UFG‘s.
gp “TU ny dant Wigan) PN iy Objects CUFOS)

We are not aware of any hearings scheduled on UFO : aeatacden
US Government and Unidentified Flying Objects," oive

investigations into UFO’S. However; SAT Or-any
cewenii nent e-saientiy iaansetigatiag-URG%S,

We appreciate your interest in this matter and trust this information will be helpful to you.

Sincerely,

Edward Heffernan

(Acting) Associate Administrator nig
for Legislative Affairs /, Ko)
i
Enclosure ? Q i
K

Headquarters Action Tracking System (HATS)
INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE ACTION
ID Number: L/1998-00494

Title: Ward/White House Referral: UFO Hearings
Recipient: A/Goldin

Organization: White House Date Written: 05/17/1998
Date Received: 06/18/1998
Date Concurred:
Date Submitted:
Date Signed:
Date Closed:
Action Office: L/Ward:S >>Current Due Date: O7/15/1998<<
Original Due Date: 07/15/1998
Status: Open

Signature Office: L/Heffernan

Info Offices: L/Heffernan, L/Heninger, L/Kerwin

Abstract:

White House Correspondence from cByA8} who supports having congressional hearing regarding the
existence of UFO's.

Comments:
Note: Vanessa needs letterhead copy of signed/dated response.

Enclosures: White House Memo

Related Records: A/1998-00416

Keywords: (®)(6) —_- UFO, hearings
File Plan: Analyst: JMassey

06/18/1998 Page 1 of 1

6/17/98 Page 1
15:54:01 CORRESPONDENCE ACTION STATUS HISTORY
Correspondence and Action Tracking System
Code A
ID Number: A98-01199
Title: WHR BULK: CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS ON UFO'S
Recipient: Organization: Date Written: 05/17/1998
GOLDIN A Date Received: 06/17/1998
Original Date Due: 07/15/1998

>> Current Date Due: 07/15/1998 <<
Submitted for Signature:
Date Signed:

Date Completed:

*Other Recipients / Organizations":

__._Aauthor: Organization:
(b) (6) WHR BULK

*Other Authors / Organizations*:

Action Office: = L Signature Office: L
Action Officer: HEFFERNAN Signature Officer: HEFFERNAN
Status: Open Security: Public Priority: Normal In/Out: Incoming
Info Copies:
Abstract: WHR BULK: VIA E-MAIL, (©) (6) VENTURA, CA, SUPPORTS HAVING CONGRESSIONAL

HEARINGS REGARDING THE EXISTENCE OF UFO'S.

Enclosures: NONE

Comment:

Keywords: VWHRBULK CALIFORNIA CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS UFO'S ET'S

Related Records:

Fileplan; 1320-1 G
Ad Hoc: A/1998-00461 Clerk: VC

Headquarters Action Tracking System (HATS)
INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE ACTION
ID Number: A/1998-00461

Title: WHR Bulk: Congressional Hearings on UFO's

Recipient: A/Goldin

Organization: WHR Bulk Date Written: 05/17/1998
Date Received: 06/17/1998
Date Concurred:
Date Submitted:
Date Signed:
Date Closed:

Action Office: LiHeffernan >>Current Due Date: 07/15/1998<<
Original Due Date: 07/15/1998

Status: Open

Signature Office: L/Heffernan

Info Offices: A/Goldin, P/WILHIDE

Abstract:
WHR Bulk: Via E-mail,{®) (Ventura, CA, supports having congressional hearings regarding the existence
of UFO's.

Comments:

Enclosures: None

Related Records: A98-01199

Keywords: VWHR Bulk California Congressional Hearings UFO's
File Plan: 1320-1 G Analyst: VCoates

06/17/1998 Page 1 of 1

Headquarters Action Tracking System (HATS)
INCOMING, CORRESPONDENCE ACTION
ID Number: L/1998-00470

Title: WARD/Rep. Gordon re taxpayers money on space aliens.
Recipient: L/Heffernan

Author: GORDON

Organization: HOUSE Date Written: 06/04/1998
Date Received: 06/15/1998
Date Concurred:
Date Submitted:
Date Signed: 06/18/1998
Date Closed: 06/18/1998

Action Office: L/Ward:S >>Current Due Date: 07/06/1998<<
Original Due Date:

Status: Closed

Signature Office: L/Heffernan

Info Offices: L/Heffernan, L/Heninger, L/Kerwin, LD/Rothman

Abstract: =
REP. GORDON WRITES ON BEHALF OF (b) (6) RE TAXPAYERS MONEY BEING
SPENT ON SPACE ALIENS.

Comments:

Enclosures: YES LTR

Related Records:

Keywords: (b) (6) SPACE ALIENS TAXPAYERS MONEY, UFO
File Plan: 1320.4 Analyst: BMoore

06/18/1998 Page 1 of 1

L:ATW:mtg:L/1998-470f

Congressman Bart Gordon has asked NASA to respond to your recent letter to him
wherein you enclosed an article on Congress funding the search for extraterrestrials.

Enclosed is a fact sheet entitled "The US Government and Unidentified Flying Objects."
As stated in the second paragraph of the Fact Sheet, Congress, in 1993, directed

NASA to end its search program.

Today the search for extraterrestrials is conducted through The Search for
Extraterrestrial Intelligence Institute (SETI Institute) in Mountain View, CA.

We appreciate your interest in this matter and trust this information will be useful

to you.

Sincerely,

Lynn W. Fieninggy

Edward Heffernan
(Acting) Associate Administrator
for Legislative Affairs

Enclosure

The Honorable Bart Gordon

ecc:
S/Ruth Netting
LB/Barbara Cherry

Sent to Patton Lane @ Hill Office (2201 RHOB)

Ais\ae og
ad a

U

“BART GORDON

2201 RAYBURN BUILDING
6TH DISTRICT, TENNESSEE

WASHINGTON, DC 20515-4206

COMMERCE COMMITTEE ey) | FAN: ta) 225-6987
SCIENCE COMMITTEE if B Ka 4 106 SOUTH MAPLE STREET
Congress of the Gnited States sina”
House of Representatives ea

COOKEVILLE, TN 38501
(939) 528-5907

June 4, 1998

Ms. Mary D. Kerwin
Deputy Associate Administrator For Legeslative Affairs
National Aeronautics and Space Administration

Two Independence Square, Room 9L33
300 E St., sw

Washington, D.C. 20546

Dear Ms. Kerwin,

_.._t am writing to you on behalf of my constituent, (6)@)
(b) (6), and have enclosed a copy of her inquiry. I would
appreciate it if you would respond directly to my constituent, as

well as send a copy to me for record keeping. I look forward to
receiving your response.

Thank you in advance for your time and consideration in this

matter. Please call if you need more information or have further
questions.

Stay in touch,

BART GORDON

Member of Congress
BUG/p1l

email: bart.gordon@mail.house.gov Internet: http://www.house.gov/gordon/

1 of 3

_Tae US Government and Unidentified Flying Objects http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/pao/facts/HTML/FS-017-HQ.html

NASA Facts FILE COP),

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration

NASA Headquarters
Public Afairs Office
Code P

300 E Streat Sw

Va shington DC 20546

FS-1997-01-017-HQ

The US Government and Unidentified
Flying Objects

No branch of the United States Government is currently involved
with or responsible for investigations into the possibility of alien life
on other planets or for investigating Unidentified Flying Objects
(UFO's). The US Air Force (USAF) and the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration (NASA) have had intermittent,
independent investigations of the possibility of alien life on other
planets; however, none of these has produced factual evidence that
life exists on other planets, nor that UFO's are related to aliens.
From 1947 to 1969, the Air Force investigated UFO's; then in 1977,
NASA was asked to examine the possibility of resuming UFO
investigations. After studying all of the facts available, it was
determined that nothing would be gained by further investigation,
since there was an absence of tangible evidence.

In October 1992, NASA was directed by Congress to begin a
detailed search for artificial radio signals from other civilizations
under the NASA Towards Other Planetary Systems (TOPS)/High
Resolution Microwave Survey (HRMS) program (also known as the
Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence project). Congress directed
NASA to end this project in October 1993, citing pressures on the
US Federal budget. The HRMS did not detect any confirmed signal
before it was stopped. However, similar work will continue in a
more limited manner through efforts of private groups and through
academic institutions. The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence
Institute (SETI Institute) in Mountain View, CA, effectively
replaced the Government project, borrowing the signal processing
system from NASA. The SETI Institute is a nonprofit corporation
conducting research in a number of fields including all science and
technology aspects of astronomy and planetary sciences, chemical
evolution, the origin of life, biological evolution, and cultural
evolution.

During several space missions, NASA astronauts have reported
phenomena not immediately explainable; however, in every instance
NASA determined that the observations could not be termed
"abnormal" in the space environment. The 1947 to 1969 USAF
investigations studied UFO's under Project Blue Book. The project,
headquartered at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, was

06/16/1998 10:35 AM

The US Government and Unidentified Flying Objects

2 of 3

UFO Points of Contact

terminated December 17, 1969. Of the total of 12,618 sightings
reported to Project Blue Book, 701 remain "unidentified."

The decision to discontinue UFO investigations was based on an
evaluation of a report prepared by the University of Colorado
entitled, "Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying Objects;" a review
of the University of Colorado's report by the National Academy of
Sciences; previous UFO studies; and Air Force experience
investigating UFO reports during the 1940's, '50's and '60's. As a
result of experience, investigations, and studies since 1948, the
conclusions of Project Blue Book were: (1) no UFO reported,
investigated, and evaluated by the Air Force was ever a threat to our
national security; (2) there was no evidence submitted to, or
discovered by, the Air Force that sightings categorized as
"unidentified" represented technological developments or principles
beyond the range of modern scientific knowledge; and (3) there was
no evidence indicating that sightings categorized as "unidentified"
were extraterrestrial vehicles.

With the termination of Project Blue Book, the USAF regulation
establishing and controlling the program for investigating and
analyzing UFO's was rescinded. Documentation regarding the
former Project Blue Book investigation was permanently transferred
to the Modern Military Branch, National Archives and Records
Service, in Washington, DC 20408, and is available for public
review and analysis.

Since the termination of Project Blue Book, nothing has occurred
that would support a resumption of UFO investigations by the
USAF or NASA. Given the current environment of steadily
decreasing defense and space budgets, it is unlikely that the Air
Force or NASA will become involved in this type of costly project
in the foreseeable future.

Since neither NASA nor the Air Force is engaged in day-to-day
UFO research, neither one reviews UFO-related articles intended for
publication, evaluates UFO-type spacecraft drawings, or accepts
accounts of UFO sightings or applications for employment in the
field of aerial phenomena investigation.

1. For further information on the Search for Extraterrestrial
Intelligence, please contact the SETI Institute, 2035 Landings
Drive, Mountain View, CA 94043, (415) 960-4530.

2. News media requiring Project Blue Book files should contact
the National Archives Public Affairs Office, (202) 501-5525.
Public queries should be addressed to the Project Blue Book
archivist at (202) 501-5385. For queries not related to Project
Blue Book, contact the National Archives receptionist at (202)
501-5400. Documentation is available from: Modern Military
Branch, National Archives and Records Service, Eighth Street
and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20408.

3. The Air Force publication, "The Roswell Report: Fact vs.

http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/pao/facts/HTML/FS-017-HQ.html

06/16/1998 10:35 AM

The US Government and Unidentified Flying Objects

3 of 3

Fiction in the New Mexico Desert," a lengthy document
providing all of the details available from the Air Force on the
Roswell incident, is available for $52 from the US
Government Printing Office, Superintendent of Documents,
Mail Stop: SSOP, Washington, DC 20402-9328.

. There are a number of universities and professional scientific

organizations that have considered UFO phenomena during
periodic meetings and seminars. A list of private
organizations interested in aerial phenomena may be found in
Gale's Encyclopedia of Associations.

. Persons wishing to report UFO sightings are advised to

contact law enforcement agencies.

Responsible NASA Official: Elsie Weigel - eweigel@hq.nasa.gov
Web Page Curator: Woody Smith - woody.smith@hq.nasa.gov

Web Designer: Pamela Sams

Revised: February 14, 1997

http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/pao/facts/HTML/FS-017-HQ. html

06/16/1998 10:35 AM

Ne
(| DRAFT
iL '

L:ATW: mtg:L/1998-470f (9 ood

Congressman Bart Gordon has asked NASA to respond to your recent letter to him
wherein you enclosed an article on Congress funding the search for extraterrestrials.

Enclosed is a fact sheet entitled "The US Government and Unidentified Flying Objects."

\S —Yeou wil nete-that-inthe-second-paragraph<the Congress i in tes directed NASA to end ie
sys its-search forextraterrestrials— Za a
ie RY
ot Today the search for extraterrestrials is conducted through The Search for

teeth Extraterrestrial Intelligence Institute (SETI Institute) in Mountain View, CA.
Soa a a :
©\ \y. We appreciate your interest in this mattera .) JE frass yp

a J) h Is

ly !
€ N+ Sincerely, Foy ’

Edward Heffernan
(Acting) Associate Administrator
for Legislative Affairs

Enclosure

The Honorable Bart Gordon

LA98-00106 Security: U Type: I Written: 03/16/98
Received: 04/23/98
Name No. Organization
To: GOLDIN 1 ADMINISTRATOR
0
0
From: ©) 43 WHR
0
0
Action/Info: A Topics | Keywords
Due Date - Current: 05/28/98 (b) (6)
Due Date - Original: 05/28/98 WHITE
Suspense Status: C HOUSE
Date Completed: 05/01/98 CSETI
HEARING
Action Office: L/S WARD PUBLIC
Info Copy: AI,EH,LH,MDK UFO
Signature Office: HENINGER EXTRATERRESTRIAL
Enclosures: N EVIDENCE
Clerk: JM

Interim Replies
Dates:
Comments:

Response Progress:

Rel’d records: A98-00789
File plans: 1320.4

Storage Location:

Summary of Contents:

WHITE HOUSE REFERRAL: ©) | MEMBER OF CSETI, SUPPORTS OPEN CONGRESSIONAL
HEARINGS, OR A PRESIDENTIAL DISCUSSION, REGARDING EVIDENCE AS TO THE EXISTENCE
OF ALIEN BEINGS AND SPACECRAFT.

Referred No. Organization
From:

ooo

_Hap Ne otrn a's om LE. 6

L:ATW:mtg:LA98-106f

The White House has forwarded to NASA for response your letter of March 16, 1998, in which
you advocate Congressional Hearings or a Presidential Discussion regarding alien beings and
their spacecraft.

Enclosed is a NASA Fact Sheet entitled “The U.S. Government and Unidentified Flying Objects.”
This Fact Sheet gives a brief outline of NASA's research into UFO's and will give you other
points of contact you may wish to pursue.

We appreciate your interest in this matter.

Lynn W. Het q

Edward Heffernan
(Acting) Associate Administrator
for Legislative Affairs

Enclosure
This letter came to us via the White House Bulk Mail

SINGS ree" Wy)

tte

Nisy

Py te Correspondence and Action Tracking System
CORRESPONDENCE ACTION
Code A

1D Number: A98-00789
Title: WHR BULK: PUBLIC CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS ON EXTRATERRESTRIAL EVIDENCE

Recipient: GOLDIN Date Written: 03/16/1998
Date Received: 04/22/1998
Original Date Due: 05/28/1998

>> Current Date Due: 05/28/1998 <<
Submitted for Signature:

Date Signed:

‘Kulioe (b) (6) Date Completed:
Organization: WHR BULK
*Other Authors / Organizations":

Organization: A
*Other Recipients / Organizations’:

Action Office: L Signature Office: Status: Open

Action Officer; HEFFERNAN Signature Officer: In/Out: Incoming
Info Copies: Priority: Normal
A, AB, S, P

*Responsible Office / Responsible Officer (Due Date)*:

WHR BULK: (6) (6) _ MINNEAPOLIS, MN, & MEMBER OF CSETI, SUPPORTS OPEN
CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS, OR EVEN A PRESIDENTIAL DISCUSSION, REGARDING
EVIDENCE AS TO THE EXISTENCE OF ALIEN BEINGS AND SPACECRAFT IN OUR
GOVERNMENT'S POSESSION.

Abstract:

Enclosures: NONE

Comments:

Headquarters Action Tracking System (HATS)
INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE ACTION
ID Number: A/1998-00310

Title: WHR Bulk: Public Congressional Hearings on Extraterrestrial
Evidence

Recipient: A/Goldin

Organization: WHR Bulk Date Written: 03/16/1998
Date Received: 04/22/1998
Date Concurred:
Date Submitted:
Date Signed:

Date Closed:

Action Office: L/Heffernan >>Current Due Date: <<
Original Due Date:

Status: Open

Signature Office: L/Heffernan

Info Offices: A/Goldin, AB/Heffernan, P(WILHIDE, S/HUNTRESS

Abstract:
WHR Bulk: (©) (6) Minneapolis, MN, Member of CSETI, supports open Congresional Hearings, or

even a Presidential discussion, regarding evidence as to the existence of alien beings and spcecraft in our
Government's posession.

Comments:

Enclosures: None

Related Records: A98-00789

Keywords: WHR Bulk Open Congressional Hearings Alien Beings ET's spacecraft CSET]
File Plan: Analyst: VCoates

04/22/1998 Page 1 of 1

eet

From nobody@www1.whitehouse.gov Mon Mar 16 22:19:34 1998
Date: Mon, 16 Mar 1998 22:16:43 -0500

Subject: Inbound-White_House_ WWW_MAIL => PRESIDENT
Apparently-to: president@WhiteHouse.GOV

To: president@WhiteHouse.GOV

Errors-to: The Postmaster <postmaster@www | .whipehouse.gov> he

Message-id: <199805170316.WAA14132@www | whiteaa We O"TIOR n ‘i

Keywords: WWW-Correspondence; ; Ask a specific question eRNTS = hk -
Administration policy; Science or Technology; Private Citizen; ey 5+ ieee
Comments: Forwarded from White House WWW S. hua oe
Comments: This message scanned by SCAN version 0.1 jms/960226 ao > h
che er
[Connection Information] er J

CLIENT: 206.147.215.243[206.147.215.243]
BROWSER: Mozilla/2.0 (compatible; MSIE 3.02; Windows 3.1)
URL: http://www. whitehouse.gov/WH/Mail/html/Mail_President.html

[Sender Information]
EMAIL-ADDRESS:
ORGANIZATION: CSETI
RELATIONSHIP: memorr
STREET-ADDRESS: ***

CITY: Minneapolis
STATE-PROVINCE: MN
ZIP-CODE: 55405
COUNTRY: USA

[Message Information]

PURPOSE: Ask a specific question regarding Administration policy
TOPIC: Science or Technology

AFFILIATION: Private Citizen

SUBJECT: public congressional hearings on extraterrestrial evidence
[Message]

Dear Mr. President:
During these trying days in your Presidency, I want to let
you know and appreciate the work you have done as President

AL1998 -O0 3/0 AV8-00 789

and the warmth and good humor you've displayed. I would like
to suggest as a way of changing the headlines about sex in the
White House, to an area that would give you a real legacy and
enlighten the world as to are place in the universe...

As a member of CSETI, I support open Congressional Hearings
or even a Presidential Discussion - public - regarding
evidence as to the existence of alien beings and spacecraft
in our government's possession. Last April members of your
staff were present during Congressional Hearings in private
with people who were in someway connected with knowledge
about alien beings, ET technology, spacecraft. Did those
discussions make you more interested to know more or are you
being advised not encourage any more meetings with CSETI?

Sometimes, sir... you have to take a positive risk on
matters that can change the world for the better. The Richard
Helms and Strom Thurmond types must be dealt with firmly.
Whether it's opening Cuba to economic trade or a healthy
discussion on a matter that will be far more remembered than
whom you may or may not have had sex with, standing up to
these dinosaurs and people like them, will go a long way in
the American public's and historians recognition of you as a
leader to another level.

I do not have CSETI's telephone number in order for you and
your staff to coordinate hearings with Dr. Steven Greer. But,
his website address is: www.cseti.org

I've heard early in your Presidency you asked former
colleage Webster Hubbel to investigate what is

known about UFO's. I think compared to past presidents, you
have been kept in the dark about ET

matters. Well, I hope that your interest in the topic hasn't
totally diminished. Scientists, engineers, former astronauts,
militay personnel and just plain citizens would like to speak

up and discuss what they know. The American public's attitude
would turn from initial cynicism to enlightenment. Even if it
means we are not on good terms with are alien visitors, or

we are not the smartest or strongest intelligent power out
there, we can handle it.

L:ATW:mtg:LA98-1 061 DR AFT

The White House has forwarded to NASA for response your letter of March 16, 1998, in which
you advocate Congressional Hearings or a Presidential Discussion regarding alien beings and

their spacecraft.
a

Enclosed is a NASA Fact Sheet entitled the U.S. Government and Unidentified Flying Objects.
This Fact Sheet gives a brief outline of NASA's research into UFO's and will give you other

points of contact or-the-seubjeetyou may wish to pursue.

We appreciate your interest in this matter.

Sincerely,

Edward Heffernan
(Acting) Associate Administrator
for Legislative Affairs

Enclosure

Headquarters Action Tracking System (HATS)
INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE ACTION
ID Number: L/1998-00415

Title: ROTHMAN/Sen Snowe fwads ltr from © © , who's interested in
U.F.O.'s sightings and abductions

Recipient: L/Heffernan

Author: SNOWE

Organization: SENATE Date Written: 05/13/1998
Date Received: 05/27/1998
Date Concurred:
Date Submitted:
Date Signed: 05/27/1998
Date Closed: 05/27/1998

Action Office: LD/Rothman:P >>Current Due Date: 06/17/1998<<
Original Due Date:

Status: Closed

Signature Office: L/Heffernan

Info Offices: L/Heffernan, L/Heninger, L/Kerwin

Abstract:

SEN SNOWE FWDS LTR FROM ©) ) WHO'S INTERESTED IN UFO'S SIGHTINGS AND
ABDUCTIONS.

Comments:

Helen spoke w/staffer referring him to Air Force; fwded fax sheet on UFOs.

Enclosures: YES LTR

Related Records:

Keywords: (®)(®) _U.F.0. SIGHTINGS ABDUCTION
File Plan: 1320.4 Analyst: BMoore

05/27/1998 Page 1 of 1

Date:_ 3. ly lax

Faxt: 250 ~YSyL
From: Helen Rothman

Director, Congressional Inquiries Division
Office of Legislative Affairs
Voice#: (202) 358-1943
Fax#: (202) 358-4343

Number of Pages including cover

NASA Facts

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration

NASA Headquarters
Public Affairs Office
Code P

300 E Street SW
Washington DC 20546

FS-1997-01-017-HQ

The US Government and Unidentified Flying Objects

No branch of the United States Government is currently in-
volved with or responsible for investigations into the possi-
bility of alien life on other planets or for investigating Uni-
dentified Flying Objects (UFO’s). The US Air Force (USAF)
and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA) have had intermittent, independent investigations
of the possibility of alien life on other planets; however, none
of these has produced factual evidence that life exists on
other planets, nor that UFO’s are related to aliens. From
1947 to 1969, the Air Force investigated UFO’s; then in 1977,
NASA was asked to examine the possibility of resuming
UFO investigations. After studying all of the facts avail-
able, it was determined that nothing would be gained by
further investigation, since there was an absence of tangible
evidence.

In October 1992, NASA was directed by Congress to begin
a detailed search for artificial radio signals from other civi-
lizations under the NASA Towards Other Planetary Systems
(TOPS)/High Resolution Microwave Survey (HRMS) pro-
gram (also known as the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelli-
gence project). Congress directed NASA to end this project
in October 1993, citing pressures on the US Federal budget.
The HRMS did not detect any confirmed signal before it
was stopped. However, similar work will continue ina more
limited manner through efforts of private groups and through
academic institutions. The Search for Extraterrestrial Intel-
ligence Institute (SETI Institute) in Mountain View, CA,
effectively replaced the Government project, borrowing the
signal processing system from NASA. The SETI Institute
is a nonprofit corporation conducting research in a number
of fields including all science and technology aspects of as-
tronomy and planetary sciences, chemical evolution, the ori-
gin of life, biological evolution, and cultural evolution.

During several space missions, NASA astronauts have re-
ported phenomena not immediately explainable; however,
in every instance NASA determined that the observations

could not be termed “abnormal” in the space environment.
The 1947 to 1969 USAF investigations studied UFO’s un-
derProject Blue Book. The project, headquartered at Wright-
Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, was terminated December
17, 1969. Of the total of 12,618 sightings reported to Project
Blue Book, 701 remain “unidentified.”

The decision to discontinue UFO investigations was based
on an evaluation of a report prepared by the University of
Colorado entitled, “Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying
Objects;” a review of the University of Colorado’s report by
the National Academy of Sciences; previous UFO studies;
and Air Force experience investigating UFO reports during
the 1940’s, ‘50’s and “60’s. As a result of experience, inves-
tigations, and studies since 1948, the conclusions of Project
Blue Book were: (1) no UFO reported, investigated, and
evaluated by the Air Force was ever a threat to our national
security; (2) there was no evidence submitted to, or discov-
ered by, the Air Force that sightings categorized as “uniden-
tified” represented technological developments or principles
beyond the range of modern scientific knowledge; and (3)
there was no evidence indicating that sightings categorized
as “unidentified” were extraterrestrial vehicles.

With the termination of Project Blue Book, the USAF regu-
lation establishing and controlling the program for investi-
gating and analyzing UFO’s was rescinded. Documentation
regarding the former Project Blue Book investigation was
permanently transferred to the Modern Military Branch,
National Archives and Records Service, in Washington, DC
20408, and is available for public review and analysis.

Since the termination of Project Blue Book, nothing has oc-
curred that would support a resumption of UFO investiga-
tions by the USAF or NASA. Given the current environ-
ment of steadily decreasing defense and space budgets, it is
unlikely that the Air Force or NASA will become involved
in this type of costly project in the foreseeable future.

Since neither NASA nor the Air Force is engaged in day-to-
day UFO research, neither one reviews UFO-related articles
intended for publication, evaluates UFO-type spacecraft
drawings, or accepts accounts of UFO sightings or applica-
tions for employment in the field of aerial phenomena inves-
tigation.

UFO Points of Contact

1. For further information on the Search for Extraterrestrial
Intelligence, please contact the SETI Institute, 2035 Land-
ings Drive, Mountain View, CA 94043, (415) 960-4530.

2. News media requiring Project Blue Book files should con-
tact the National Archives Public Affairs Office, (202) 501-
5525. Public queries should be addressed to the Project
Blue Book archivist at (202) 501-5385. For queries not
related to Project Blue Book, contact the National Ar-
chives receptionist at (202) 501-5400. Documentation is

available from: Modern Military Branch, National Ar-
chives and Records Service, Eighth Street and Pennsyl-
vania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20408.

. The Air Force publication, “The Roswell Report: Fact

vs. Fiction in the New Mexico Desert,” a lengthy docu-
ment providing all of the details available from the Air
Force on the Roswell incident, is available for $52 from
the US Government Printing Office, Superintendent of
Documents, Mail Stop: SSOP, Washington, DC 20402-
9328.

. There are a number of universities and professional sci-

entific organizations that have considered UFO phenom-
ena during periodic meetings and seminars. A list of pri-
vate organizations interested in aerial phenomena may be
found in Gale ’s Encyclopedia of Associations.

. Persons wishing to report UFO sightings are advised to

contact law enforcement agencies.

ee ne

' OLYMPIA J. SNOWE pr aundisar
MAINE ARMED SERVICES
CouNSEL To THE ASSISTANT BUDGET

Masonry LEADER
COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND

BE 3 Me
en eaaaese Wnited States Senate sage
- / CHAIR OF

WASHINGTON, DC 20510-1908 elidel Ade aaa
May 13, 1998 SMALL BUSINESS

Mr. Lawrence E. Medway

Director, Congressional Inquiries Division
National Aeronautic and Space Administration
300 E. Street, SW

Washington, D.C. 20546

Dear Mr. Medway:
I am writing to you regarding the concerns of my constituent, ©) (8) _ of
Portland, Maine.

(P) (@) is interested in U.F.O. sightings and abductions. I have enclosed a copy
of his correspondence for your review. Any information you could provide which

would help me answer his questions would be appreciated.

Thank you for your time and attention.

cerely,

OJS:mjb
AUBURN AUGUSTA BanGor BIDDEFORD PORTLAND Presque ISLE
Two Great FALLS PLAZA 68 Sewae STREET, Sure 101C One CumaenLaND PLACE, Suite 306 231 Main Street, Sure 2 3 Cana PLaza, Suire 601 169 Acavemy STREET, SuITE 3
Surre 7B Auecusta, ME 04330 Bancor, ME 04401 Brocerorno, ME 04005 P.O, Box 188 Presque Iste, ME 04769
Aupaurn, ME 04210 (207) 622-8292 (207) 945-0432 (207) 282-4144 PoaTLano, ME 04112 (207) 764-5124
(207) 786-2451 (207) 874-0883
Maine RELAY Service
TDD 1-955-3323

IN MAINE CALL TOLL-FREE 1-800-432-1599 PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

ean . Mp ve mee

— APR 0 / 1998
FEBUARY 22 1998 TIME- 9:11am
Dear Senitor Olyimpia Snow,
My name is ©) ©) I'm from Portland, Maine. I'm 12 years
old. (6) (6) . | heard about the fredom of

information act. | would be so grateful it you could get any or all
government documents released on the Roswell crash. I'm a U.F.O.
researcher. | have heard about the following U.F.O. sightings and
abductions:

. LAS LUNAS, NEW MEXICO’ LATE JUNE1977 11:30A.M. :
. SHIROYAMA, KAWANOE CITY JAPAN FEB/2/75 16:00 MILITARY TIME
. WAIKIKI BEACH, HONOLULU, HAWAII MARCH/15/93 12:00 P.M.

. COLFAX, WISCONSIN APRIL/19/78 13:30 MILITARY TIME

. DENVER, COLARODO MAY/1991 AFTERNOON

. BARCELONA, SPAIN JUNE/1978 SUNDOWN

. MONTEMORELOS, NUEVA LEON, MEXICO SUMMER OF 1994 AFTERNOON
. VANCOUVER, B.C. CANADA OCTOBER/17/1992

. GULF BREEZ, FLORADA SEPTEMBER/24/1994 18:50 MILITARY TIME
10. ZACATELCO, TLAXCALA, MEXICO OCTOBER/31/1991

11. VIBORG, JUTLAND, DENMARK NOVEMBER/17/74 9:00 A.M.

12. COCOYOC, MORELOS, MEXICO NOVEMBER/3/73 9:00 A.M.

13. BELJUM MIDNIGHT

14. MT. KIDTARDIN, MAINE MIDNIGHT 3 CAMPERS WERE ABDUCTED

15. GROOM LAKE NEVADA AREA 51 FREQUNTLY

Con noob wn —

As you have read Ido know alot aboout U.F.O'S. | also knoew in RIGHT
PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, OHIO THERE KEEPING ALIENS AND CRAFT IN
HANGER 18. THERE IS ALSO A GOVERNMENT AGENCY CALLED M.J.12.

| know that U.F.O'S visit america frequntly and our government knows
about it. Soon every political persons are going to get a pitition from a
high school in New Hampshire to have information on the Roswell crash
released to the public. | have heard roomers that at HULAMAN AIR FORCE
BASE A U.F.0. LANDED AND THE HIGH RANKING PERSON AT THE BASE TALKED
TO THE ALIEN. The government made a big mistake by letting Aliens

into the country and can do nothing about it.

sincerly,

I'm including my address, phone number, and P.O. box.

Headquarters Action Tracking System (HATS)
INCOMING CORRESPONDENCE ACTION
ID Number: L/1998-00415

Title: ROTHMAN/Sen Snowe fwds Itr from © © who's interested in
U.F.O.'s sightings and abductions

Recipient: L/Heffernan

Author: SNOWE

Organization: SENATE Date Written: 05/13/1998
Date Received: 05/27/1998
Date Concurred:
Date Submitted:
Date Signed:

Date Closed:

Action Office: LD/Rothman:P >>Current Due Date: 06/17/1998<<

Original Due Date:

Status: Open
Signature Office: L/Heffernan

Info Offices: L/Heffernan, L/Heninger, L/Kerwin

Abstract: b) (6
SEN SNOWE FWDs LTR FROM™) ®) WHO'S INTERESTED IN UFO'S SIGHTINGS AND

ABDUCTIONS.
Comments:

Me if

Enclosures: YES LTR De ts

NQ4
Related Records: Thy
Te den

Ly

Keywords: ()(6) U_F.0. SIGHTINGS ABDUCTION
File Plan: Analyst: BMoore

05/27/1998 Page 1 of 1